---
intro: "<p>Information about the PEB, overarching activities and collaborations have been presented (see link to related document at the end of these notes). It is seen as sensible when Volker, Mirjam or Mark participate at the relevant EOSC Symposium Meetings (Volker will be there anyhow).</p><p>The TC was nominated.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Mailing lists set up; D1.1 Human resource allocation is under preparation and needs input from project partners; INFRAEOSC 5 Collaboration agreement is still under discussion; INFRAEOSC 5 Cross Project Collaboration Board and the related task forces had the first meetings; new Project Manager (Sophie Servan) will start at 1 December; abstract about ExPaNDS submitted to the 'International Symposium on Grids and Clouds 2020' in Taipei.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Survey under preparation and coordinated with WP3 and PaNOSC; plan to submit it mid of November; Heike works on DMP; Brian gave a <a href='https://drive.google.com/open?id=1dXwg1Qu-pJLfZhg9I5gL5USdZXxyCtIl'>talk</a> at the OpenScienceFair in Porto on ExPANDS; recruiting is ongoing; participating in the meeting of the FAIRsFAIR Synchronisation Task Force on 25 November in Budapest.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun provided written input via e-mail for WP2 to the topic “WP reports” (13. November 2019 9:31):</p><table>
  <tr>
    <th>Activity</th>
    <th>Date</th>
    <th>Comment</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>ExPands Kick off</td>
    <td>Sept 2019</td>
    <td>Project start-up and </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PaNOSC WP3 gathering</td>
    <td>Sept 2019</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Expands WP3 mailing list setup</td>
    <td>End Oct 2019</td>
    <td>Ongoing</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>PaNOSC Annual Meeting</td>
    <td>4-7 Nov 2019</td>
    <td>Including PaNOSC WP3 2 day breakout</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Release of Joint WP2 & 3 questionnaire</td>
    <td>Mid Nov 2019</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Request for task responsibilities sent</td>
    <td>Nov</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Invited to HZB user meeting</td>
    <td>Dec 2019</td>
    <td><a href='https://www.helmholtz-berlin.de/user/workshops/metrology/index_en.html'>link</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Joint WP2 and WP3 Landscape analysis</td>
    <td>End Dec 2019</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>WP3 PaNOSC API and Data catalogue coordinating meeting</td>
    <td>February 2020</td>
    <td>Copenhagen/Lund (Tobias Richter will take lead)</td>
  </tr>
</table>"
#WP4
- "<p>Recruiting at DESY for WP4 successful; relevance of involving researchers has been stressed and the task to find appropriate data sets for testing; proposal to contact WP early to remind them on upcoming deliverables (6 months in advance).</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Started working although core work phase starts in project month 12; set up mailing list; participated at PaNOSC Annual Meeting, will have a meeting with EGI and a WP5&WP6 joint meeting (feedback will provided after the meetings).</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat Roarty joined the team as well as Emelie Hilner who participated in PANOSC Annual Meeting, participated in the INFRAEOSC 5 phone conference; plans to discuss training platforms with JISC; contacted Head of Communication at COM; got one feedback on deliverable “Communication Strategy…”; offered to shift 0.25 FTE to Soleil when needed, this will be discussed between Isabelle and Nazaré next week and feedback will be provided.</p>"

aob: "<p>Deliveries have been discussed.</p><p>Approach to further work on risks and KPI has been made.</p>"
---
