---
intro: "<p>Deliverables have been discussed, especially the rescheduling of the two dedicated user meetings and the support to the development of the taxonomy strategy.</p><p>PaNOSC access to all deliverables, including the ´confidential´ ones, has been agreed.</p><p>Feedback from Knut and Andy about EOSC Symposium and coordination Day in Budapest.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Recent works mainly on Collaboration Agreement and deliverables; arrival of Sophie Servan who joined the team on December, 2nd.</p>"
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- "<p>Recent works mainly on survey with WP2 and PaNOSC which was sent; mailing list updated; workshop in January with PaNOSC to be organized.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>Upcoming meeting with Thomas from PaNOSC to organize collaboration on platform and with EGI on how they could participate, both hopefully before the end of December.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Current audit on mail listings; the meetings with WP leaders carry on every week.</p>"

aob: ""
---
