---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Abigail, Alun, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p>Alun asked if an amendment was conceivable to ask to reallocate personnel costs (cat ‘A’) to sub-contracting (cat ‘B’). After a discussion on the financial possibilities it was agreed that before considering an amendment, PSI would see internally if they can make do with costs reallocations between ‘A’ and ‘D’ (other direct costs), and have their possible contractor only to support PSI staff in the tasks (and not take over).</p>
<p><i>Off-meeting: the indirect costs apply to ‘A’ and ‘D’ budget categories at the same flat-rate of 25% so no problem when reallocating from ‘A’ to ‘D’ or from ‘D’ to ‘A’.</i></p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Recruitment update: No further recruitment needed</p>
<p>Sophie mentioned the <a href='https://www.eosc-portal.eu/news/funding-covid-19-eoscsecretariat'>EOSC co-creation fund</a> was open to COVID linked initiatives.</p>
<p>A folder to record the minutes is available in SharePoint, Sophie asked to put the minutes there to make them more sustainable than floating Google docs: Document Library / Meeting minutes</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Recruitment update: 1 position for ALBA to be published soon (general delay at ALBA re. recruitment because of Corona)
TBC for PSI but will probably only affect current resources (Sophie to ask Mirjam)
TBC for Soleil (Sophie to ask Brigitte)
</p>
<p>Abigail reported WP2 set a <b>timeline</b> for upcoming tasks and activities and was carrying on as planned with the data policy framework, glossary and building the <b>data life cycle</b> (building on PaNdata deliverables).</p>
<p>Kat reminded there was a previous version of an ExPaNDS glossary that could be used.</p>
<p>Alun asked how much WP2 was focused on FAIR <b>data</b> compared to FAIR <b>services</b>. Followed a discussion to stress that WP2 could and should help on all aspects of FAIR (not only ‘F’ and ‘A’) and not only regarding data but also to make WP3 and WP4 products FAIR themselves.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Recruitment update: 1.5 FTE to be filled by current job advertisements from PSI
TBC for Diamond (Sophie to ask Silvia)
1 position to be filled by upcoming job advertisement from Soleil (update of a position open since January but that found no satisfactory candidate)
Same as WP2 for ALBA
</p>
<p>A meeting focused on management and reporting for WP3 is being organised this week by Alun, notably to feed the progress report. He also reported the search terms survey Diamond took with beamline scientists got 22 responses and was already being improved.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Recruitment update: 0.5 FTE to be filled by current job advertisement from PSI
1 position to start very soon with Anton at DESY
0.2 FTE to be filled by upcoming job advertisement at DESY to work specifically on portal deployment
Same as WP3 for Soleil
Same as WP2 for ALBA
0.5 FTE to be fully available from July 2020 on for HZDR (Oliver)</p>
<p>Deliverable due M18: Anton and Patrick are adjusting on a common view of what the D4.1 deliverable should be.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Recruitment update: 0.5 FTE to be fully available from July 2020 on for HZDR (Oliver)
</p>
<p>The <b>first workshop on FAIR</b> which was planned for M12 will be virtual. WP5 and WP2 would rather have it in M13-14 to have time to focus on the deliverables due M12 and get some feedback on them before the actual workshop. This however will still be discussed.</p>
<p>The <b>second workshop</b> on recommendations for national RIs on common practices’ focus and content still needs to be defined. It was agreed though, that there was no need to wait for the EOSC-INFRA 03 and 07 calls to start.</p>
<p>The third workshop on data analysis (planned M25) could be held at PSI.</p>
<p>Patrick also asked WP5 to study the possibility to have <b>online workshops</b> and not only F2F, even after Corona. It indeed seems like a good way to reach a wider number of users, virtual sessions being more flexible. In this case, good ideas to reallocate the travel budget to PMs would be welcome.</p>
<p>Thibaud also mentioned there would be a webinar by PaNOSC to explain <b>how to create content on the e-learning platform</b>. It will be planned around Q3 2020 and will be of interest to all potential ‘content uploaders’ (see MaxIV and Lunds University, and other university partners for participation).</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Recruitment update: No further recruitment needed</p>
<p>Deliverable due M8: Info sheet on ExPaNDS and benefits of open data for RI users (Diamond): will be the second video introducing ExPaNDS. The storyboard will be shared today with Patrick and Sophie.</p>
<p>The ExPaNDS first video infographics was released last week, in the lightsources.org newsletter, Twitter, the <a href='https://expands.eu/2020/04/09/understanding-more-about-our-expands-project/'>website</a>…</p>
<p>The first round of <b>webinar ideas</b> is almost ready and was fed by internal discussions at Diamond. The use of container technologies for cloud computing (with Kubernetes) was suggested, for example.</p>"

aob: "<p>Daniel reported that he was discussing with Jamie Hall (TC of PaNOSC) on a <b>workshop dedicated to testing the PaNOSC portal</b> to get details on each facility’s experience, needs and difficulties in the deployment process.</p>
<p>A discussion followed, for which an outline summary is attempted here. It is essential that the use cases we choose for ExPaNDS resonate within the user community and all WP are concerned by them. There is no use focusing on ‘fancy’ use cases (offering Jupyter Notebooks through containers) if it only reaches a small part on the community. On the other hand, it is important to create value with ExPaNDS, not only reproducing what we can already do (HPC friendly interface). This balance still needs to be found and finding the right use cases to express the community need before focusing on the actual solutions is becoming a priority.</p>"
---
