---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Majid, Thibaud, Uwe, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>ExPaNDS extension</h2><p>Sophie presented the <a href='https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rEGXQVLtifAQ_m-PrE6pggV8o5iEfEWAKztHMeGWY8Y/edit?usp=sharing'>updated timeline of deliverables and milestones</a>. All WP were asked to check and comment on <b>possible interactions</b> that were not identified yet. The updated timeline will be shared with PaNOSC and the 5b projects tomorrow, 19th of August.</p> <h2>Feedback on EOSC SRIA</h2> <p>The <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1woI_EFn-irmwHYC2kX2dS5quzHk0vWsf3qAlsZxtsFc/edit?usp=sharing'>ExPaNDS response to the SRIA consultation</a> was shared by Patrick. Comments are still welcome before the document is also shared with PaNOSC and the 5b projects, again by tomorrow.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported Rudolf’s message to PaNOSC which was to encourage our facilities to express <a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/expressions-of-interest'>interest for membership in the EOSC Association</a>. FYI the member fees will be used to cover the functioning costs of the Association which are estimated to eventually reach between 1.5 to 2 M€ / year. However, these fees could be, for the first year or maybe two, covered by the <b>EOSCsecretariat co-creation fund</b>. Asking to join will show our eagerness to <b>get researchers well represented in the EOSC</b>.</p><p>Sophie then updated on the <b>annual meeting preparations</b> and explained the purpose of the survey which was sent around to get an idea of how much effort we can / should put into keeping at least a part of the event as F2F. She also mentioned the answers expected from WP leaders to Florian’s e-mail about cross-WP meetings wishes. Alun said it had been discussed during WP3’s last joint meeting and that no specific need for WP3 was expressed, the 2 WPs being already fully synchronised with remote meetings.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian reported that the <b>D2.1</b> deliverable should be <b>ready for project review</b> by the end of the week. The suggested reviewers were Frank Schlünzen, Uwe, Patrick and Sophie. It was agreed that the google doc version would be shared for comments, even though all references form the native version are not available, for formatting issues. Andy will also be involved in the review and Brian will be in touch separately to discuss with him and explain the differences to the PaNOSC data policy model.<br>It was agreed that the references should be added at the end of the document, in the final version, since there are ~100 of them and it would ultimately facilitate the work of the EU reviewers.</p> <p>Brian and Abigail also reported the progress on the <b>FAIR workshop</b> of the 1st and 2nd of October with almost all speakers booked. The registration shall open ASAP and a parallel meeting with Kat will be planned this week to that end.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun was invited to a ‘Metadata catalogues integration workshop’ by <b>FAIRsFAIR</b> and inquired WP2 about it. It will hold on the 11h of September. </p> <p>The <b>ontology</b> work continues with two meetings planned by Sylvia in September with PaNOSC.</p> <p>Alun is also working on the <b>D3.1</b> deliverable which should be available for project review at the end of September.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>During the last WP4 meeting, Uwe mentioned the survey sent around by Daniel and confirmed he had responded for HZDR. The others were not all aware of it and Uwe recommended to send a reminder. He also raised the topic of <b>AAI</b> and the fact that all facilities didn’t necessarily use <b>UmbrellaID</b>, which was perceived by some as ‘experimental’. AAI is an important part of PaNOSC WP6 and Andy reminded that GEANT had made UmbrellaID <b>sustainable and EOSC compliant</b>, with EduTeams. Patrick mentioned it was good that facilities did the necessary steps to integrate the new version of UmbrellaID (which will soon be operational) but that it was more a ‘facility task’ than an ‘ExPaNDS task’.</p> <p>The <b>next steps</b> for the reference datasets and their publication are to be clarified.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud reported that the <b>D5.1</b> deliverable would be <b>ready for project review</b> by the beginning of next week. </p> <p>Regarding the <b>sustainability of the online learning platform</b>, Thibaud suggested to ask LEAPS-IT if a takeover by LEAPS (and then LENS) was worth considering. Andy and others reminded that LEAPS had no staff or funding of their own so that it might not be possible. Uwe then suggested <b>HZDR could take over for the platform after the project ends</b>.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat reported the ongoing activities for the annual meeting and technical workshop preparation. The different calls for posters or talks did not materialise yet.</p>"

aob: ""
---
