---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Mirjam, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Majid, Nazaré, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>ExPaNDS extension</h2><p>Following the Collaboration Board meeting, Patrick explained the decision of our partners to ask for an extension of ExPaNDS. Isabelle raised the challenge it represented for WP6 since Diamond was on track with its budget early-on in the project. She is however working on a solution that could be quite satisfactory, strengthening the synergies between ExPaNDS and <b>lightsources.org</b>. No other concern was raised by the WPs.</p><p>Patrick stressed that in the updated layout of our deliverables and milestones we should be very careful <b>not to impact other projects</b>. For example, Abigail mentioned that <b>FAIRsFAIR</b> is counting on our workshop at the beginning of October for a deliverable due in November. Our sister project <b>PaNOSC</b> wrote their proposal without ExPaNDS existing yet, but since then our common work can have created dependencies which have to be identified and addressed.</p><p>The best way to proceed was discussed and the following was agreed:</p><ul><li>before the end of the week, discuss with Patrick and Sophie if an issue is foreseen on one of the <b>deliverables due in M12</b>. N.B: except for WP2 and D2.2, which was discussed beforehand.</li><li>in a week’s time, that is by next Tuesday, each WP leader (or co-lead for WP4) is to send an e-mail to Patrick and Sophie identifying <b>all the dependencies between their WP, the other WPs and external projects</b>.</li></ul><p>The overall updated layout will then build on these inputs. Patrick reminded that it had to be ready for <b>early September</b> at the latest and that it was a <b>‘one-shot’ plan</b>. A few guidelines were discussed and also agreed upon:</p><ul><li>the last month will be blocked for the final review preparation, no deliverable or milestone shall be planned then,</li><li>we should delay deliverables and milestones as little as possible and in any case avoid delaying by more than 3-4 months (except of course when it’s intrinsically an end-of-project report).</li></ul>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Following Diego’s presentation on <b>onboarding to EOSC</b>, Sophie raised the need for our future services to have a <b>helpdesk</b>, an <b>access policy</b> and a <b>privacy policy</b>. Daniel mentioned we should look into it through <b>sustainability</b> for after the project’s end. Alun and Majid reminded most of our outcomes will depend on existing services, which should include those features.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Regarding D2.1, Brian mentioned WP2 carried on collecting the <b>national policies</b> landscape and had talked with Jos van Wezel from the policies task force of the 5B projects to see how we could help each other. There is still some work but the deliverable is shaping up, WP2 is still planning to have it ready for the end of August.</p>
<p>Regarding D2.2, as mentioned earlier it needs to be shifted by 3 months. Daniel, Abigail and Brian have reshaped it, reconciling their views on what it should be and the level of details needed. </p>
<p>The workshop on FAIR is planned for the <b>1st-2nd of October</b> at 11am CEST. It will last 2x90min. The outlines of the content and the speakers are now decided, though some of the latter still need to confirm. Meetings are planned in the following weeks with WP5 and 6 to progress on the form. Abigail clarified that some parts of the workshop will be <b>interactive</b> but that, in the end, nothing would be asked from participants in advance. Actual <b>exemples from HZDR, Diamond and ESRF</b> will be included.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun mentioned that D3.1 is depending on input from all facilities which was not so easy in this period. It is progressing still.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>During last WP4 meeting, Majid mentioned the discussions were focused on the <b>testing platform</b>. Daniel and Sophie reminded about the technical coordination workshop and the registration.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Nazaré mentioned that during the training task force of the 5B projects, we discovered the <a href='https://tess.elixir-europe.org/'><b>Elixir open source platform</b></a> which was really interesting. It was shared with PaNOSC and it is now considered as an extension of the current PaNOSC e-learning platform. Its functionalities would be sufficient for ExPaNDS to put our content into and WP5 is considering talking to EGI to see if they could technically look into it. This would also mitigate the delays for the PaNOSC platform. </p>
<p>Nazaré and Thibaud said the next PaNOSC/ExPaNDS task force on training will need to agree on the way to proceed, and that it will probably be held in September. All agreed the ExPaNDS logo should be added to the PaNOSC platform as it should be seen as the <b>PaN platform</b>. Isabelle mentioned Diamond bought the e-photon.org domain and are planning to use it with lightsources as a mirror of e-neutron.org. Mirjam reminded the important role of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS in bringing together the Photon and Neutron communities.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle confirmed the <b>3rd ExPaNDS video on PaN facilities</b> had been disseminated this week in e.g Twitter. WP6 is now still seeking, as alternatives to sponsorship, the best online conferences to come. Isabelle mentioned a <b>Lightsources event</b> in September where ExPaNDS could be presented, which would represent a good <b>user meeting</b> opportunity for the associated deliverable in WP6. </p>
<p>Regarding other deliverables, the <b>corporate presentation</b> was updated and is available in SharePoint. The <b>roadmap and vision</b> needs inputs from WP2-3-4 and Isabelle and Kat will evaluate the situation for M12 considering the adaptation needed for the extension.</p>
<p>Kat also mentioned the current <b>website update</b> in progress, which will link ExPaNDS to <b>LEAPS</b> and <b>PaNOSC</b>, among others.</p>"

aob: "<p>Alun was positive about the candidates PSI received for <b>ExPaNDS recruitment</b>. The first round is now finished. As mentioned during the CB and reminded by Majid, Paris-region-compatible candidates will be ‘forwarded’ to Soleil. </p><p>Mirjam mentioned the recent publication of the <a href='https://leaps-initiative.eu/analytical-research-infrastructures-as-key-resources-for-the-five-horizon-europe-missions/'><b>ARIE position paper</b></a> which will be presented in September during the <a href='https://ec.europa.eu/info/research-and-innovation/events/upcoming-events/european-research-and-innovation-days_en'><b>Research and Innovation days</b></a> (22-24th). The ARIE represents 120 facilities in Photon and Neutron science but also electrons, lasers, ions, protons… and has a very good connection with the European Commission, with whole parts of its publications often reused by the EC.</p><p>Following a question by Patrick, Mirjam also mentioned the <b>ESFRI EOSC workshop</b> in October, 6th-7th in Greece (near Athens). As our ExPaNDS annual meeting, they will decide by the end of August if it can remain on-site. The input from thematic projects like ExPaNDS and PaNOSC are very valuable to the EOSC and the agenda of this event is thus shaping around this. Next telco of the organisational committee will be in August.</p><p>Daniel mentioned Andy’s wish to reschedule the <b>technical coordination workshop</b> and his willingness to find another date but thought earlier would be too challenging. A new date was discussed and we decided for the <b>8th of October</b>, with the 9th as an extension option if ‘too many’ facilities can attend. </p>
<p>Finally, Abigail asked whether WP leaders needed to alert tasks contributors on possible over- or under-spending. Patrick suggested the leaders should trust the partners to distribute their effort in the different WPs as they thought best. Only when a lack of involvement is detected should the PC and WP1 be alerted and offer support, as e.g. Patrick did for WP2 in the CB.</p>"
---
