---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Majid, Thibaud, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p>After a few months of COVID, Patrick exposed his plan to present an overall strategy to our PO for the deliverables that are to be adapted. As monitored since the start of the epidemic, a priori no significant delay is to be reported, only adaptation of our WP5 and WP6 workshops and events. The strategy will be shared with WP leaders in the coming days.</p>
<p>The proposal led by Technopolis for the EOSCINFRA-03 call was submitted last week. Rudolf in PaNOSC really helped us get ‘a seat at the table’ through DESY and PSI for ExPaNDS. The project, if accepted by the EC, will be called EOSC-Future and will start in Jan. 2021.</p>
<p>Concerning the EGI conference, Sophie didn’t submit our PaN session application yet. The deadline was reported to July, 15th. The remaining details will be addressed with Patrick and Andy and the application sent ASAP.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Diego from EGI is preparing a presentation for us to explain what onboarding to EOSC concretely means for ExPaNDS’ products. The meeting is sought to be held during the first half of July. It will primarily concern WP3 and 4 but can also be a good input for WP5 and what the 2nd workshop on EOSC should focus on.</p>
<p>Sophie received the first financial reports from our partners for the interim report. Meetings with each WP leader are planned at the beginning of July to be able to match this financial report with the technical progress.</p>
<p>The WP2 KPIs are now agreed. Valentina will upload the last version of the KPIs table to SharePoint for the others (WP3, WP5 and WP6) to check them and add narrative before the end of the month as previously agreed.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Concerning the data policy update (T2.1), discussions are still ongoing inside WP2 to revise the outline for the M12 deliverable. Abigail explained that for us national RIs, the national data policies could highly affect our own data policies and that a gap analysis needs to be made to measure the impact adopting the PaNOSC policy would have. Each partner is looking at those for the next meeting.</p>
<p>In parallel, the T2.3 on standards for data management is progressing normally, with a good implication of T3.2 contributors also.</p>
<p>During the preparation of the training workshop on FAIR, it appeared we lacked concrete examples of FAIR success stories for PaN users. If someone has suggestions, please send them to Abigail.</p>
<p>WP2 was also approached by FREYA for a 15-min-presentation on PIDs for a workshop planned in July. We are studying the possibility to deliver.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The user stories as raw results of the survey have been uploaded to the SharePoint by Silvia. An internal WP3 presentation of the analysis of the results is being organised. A presentation to a wider audience will be planned afterwards.</p>
<p>Works on the ontology are progressing, with the Pankos ontology being integrated into ExPaNDS’. The use of BioPortal to publish our ontology is currently being investigated, with the possibility to onboard the overall service into EOSC.</p>
<p>The Wayforlight presentation will be rescheduled for next week. <i>Off-meeting: it is rescheduled for the 1st of July @10am CEST.</i></p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The selection of the reference data sets is finalised. Anton reported the focus was now going to the implementation of the test framework, lead by MaxIV.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Since online workshops need less organisation, Thibaud suggested to make more workshops, but shorter and on more specific subjects. The format was agreed: a 1 day F2F workshop is ~equivalent to 4 x 90 minutes online sessions, which can be split over several days. However, the effort for the other WPs to come up with the content is the same online or not so for now the planned workshops remain the same.</p>
<p>After the first FAIR workshop in Sept. ‘20, we will adapt if necessary.</p>
<p>Thibaud is also preparing a template for all WP leaders to fill with possible content we want to upload to the e-learning platform. The content should be both ‘IT-’ and ‘science-’ oriented.</p>
<p>An internal meeting on resources is planned at Soleil tomorrow to review the overall situation for ExPaNDS, including potential PM transfer propositions to other partners. Thibaud will keep Patrick and WP1 updated on the outcome.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>The work on the 3rd video of the series, on PaN instruments, is ongoing and Kat expects it to be ready by the end of the month, although it is not a deliverable per se.</p>
<p>The revised version of the ExPaNDS general presentation will also be submitted for review by Patrick, Daniel and Sophie by the end of the week.</p>
<p>Kat also reported on the 3 major events WP6 was investigating for us. She is in contact with these 3 conferences to discuss sponsorship possibilities:</p>
<ul><li>the Joint 28th AIRAPT and 59th EHPRG International Conference on High pressure science and technology in Edimburg in July ‘21</li>
<li>an AAAS online conference in Feb. ‘21, for which Kat participated in a preparatory webinar and to which we can also submit posters (opening application date for e-posters: 4th August ‘20)</li>
<li>the ESOF conference in Sept. ‘20, which is very expensive (too expensive), but can still shift online, and probably will.</li></ul>
<p>Internally at Diamond, there will also be on the 30th of July an internal webinar on Jupyterhub and Kubernetes. It will be recorded and will act as a try-out for the ExPaNDS user webinar.</p>"

aob: ""
---
