---
intro: "<p>Knut announced his leaving the project at the end of January. Patrick will succeed as ExPaNDS coordinator.</p><p>The following deliverables were delivered in December (the delivered version is available on <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/13hpscf5WkNVJZvKyPTu-nEyyfw5Kz3cR46XqvqVolXs/edit'> ​ExPaNDS
landing page​)</a>:</p><ul>
  <li>Collaboration Agreement (1.11)</li>
  <li>Risk analysis (1.3)</li>
  <li>Internal communication plan (1.5)</li>
</ul>
<p>The deliverables for next month are the project quality assurance plan (WP1 PSI) and the data management
plan (WP1 DESY). The milestone linked to the quality assurance plan will need to be moved to fit the deadline
for this deliverable.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>The WP internal communication mailing lists are open to subscription, which will be notified to
every project’s member. The other lists (mainly board lists) are administrated by WP1 so any request
can be directly addressed to Sophie. Transforming the current stakeholders’ list into a ‘who’s who’ file
which would contain e-mail address, list subscription and board membership is proposed for
publication on the landing page. The ExPaNDS WP leads will be mentioned as contacts in the PaNOSC
GitHub (​<a href='https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/PaNOSC-Stakeholders'>here​</a>).</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The results of the landscaping questionnaire were published at the end of December and are to
be shared with Andy. The next important task is the <b>common Data Policy</b> issued by PaNOSC and for
which a draft is soon to be shared with Brian and to WP2. If Andy consents, Brian will distribute it to
all ExPaNDS WP.</p>"
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- "<p><b>Use cases</b> for data analysis services are being defined (~6 independent use cases) based on
PaNOSC works with the objective of being presented or consolidated during upcoming PaN user
meetings (e.g. DESY user meeting and MaxIV-I if it is not too short a notice). The <b>reference data sets</b>
are also being defined and a workshop with WP3 is to be scheduled to that purpose. The
collaboration within the project needs to be reinforced on this important task, especially with HZDR
and PaNOSC. WP1 will help ensure the mailing lists are up-to-date ASAP.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Nazaré introduced Thibaud Cayla as new member of the project, he will be highly involved in
ExPaNDS for WP5 and 6. WP5 had a joint meeting with their PaNOSC counterparts on December, 10​th
and will from now on have monthly meetings to precisely define the interface with the PaNOSC
e-learning platform. They are planning for the next one to be a face to face meeting at the beginning
of February.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Regular work carries on with WP leads and with PaNOSC. In particular, the will for a joint
presence of both projects at user meetings is shared between WP6 and their PaNOSC counterpart. To
enhance traffic on the ExPaNDS website it is reminded that all events of interest to users are to be
mentioned to WP6. Finally a <b>SharePoint space</b> for the project has been developed and is ready for
testing by all WP leads. A feedback from all ‘beta users’ is welcome ASAP with the objective of
agreeing on a migrating from the landing page to it as soon as next PEB.</p>"

aob: "<p>Concerning upcoming meetings, for which a common tool still needs to be put in place (action for WP1 with
the help of WP6):</p>
<ul>
  <li>26-28 of February: Training session on EOSC for INFRA-EOSC 5b and cluster projects. WP5 and
PaNOSC will be attending.</li>
<li>8-13 of March: Patrick will (briefly) present ExPaNDS at ISGC 2020 in Taipei. He will ask WP leads for
technical input. WP6 mentioned existing presentations that could/should be used.</li>
</ul>"
---
