---
intro: "<p>For ontology works and for more collaborative developments to come, it was decided an <b>ExPaNDS repository</b> should be set up in GitHub.com. WP6 will create it and co-administrate it with WP1.</p>
<p>About the <b><a href='https://indico.egi.eu/event/5000/overview'>EGI conference</a></b> which is calling for abstracts, a text was drafted and sent to the PEB by Sophie on the 3rd of June. The swift participation of each WP leader to improve it is expected by tomorrow so we can work on it and submit it in time on June, 19th.</p>
<p>The question of the relevance to have <b>separate neutron and photon e-learning platforms</b> for dissemination purposes and consistency with lightsources.org and neutronsources.org was raised. The general opinion of the PEB was that it would be a shame to create a schism in the community when there is no real scientific ground (~25% of the community overlapses). The idea to have tags or filters to be able to focus on photon or neutron was suggested. We should be able to add this feature to the platform.</p>
<p>Patrick updated us on the <b>INFRA-EOSC 03 call</b>, due on 18th of June. DESY and PSI will be proposed as partners by Rudolf for WP5 with the crystallography use-case mentioned last time. Patrick is discussing with EUDAT and RDA to get the PaN community also in WP10 (community engagement). Concerning <b>INFRA-EOSC 07 call</b>, which is specific services offered through EGI, among ExPaNDS partners it seems only DESY and STFC are involved.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie mentioned the <b>interim report</b> had started with a good response from our partners’ project offices. </p>
<p>For our <b>annual meeting</b> with PaNOSC, the Indico page will soon be open for registration, with the preliminary programme. Brian asked Susan Daenke from EOSC-Life if she would be interested to be our speaker for FAIR, her answer is pending.</p>
<p>The WP leaders are working on the <b>KPIs</b> Valentina sent around, WP2 in particular is struggling to find better KPIs. The deadline was set to the end of June.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail and Brian expressed worries on the ongoing works in WP2. The <b>consultation process with facilities</b> is more complicated than foreseen, because they don’t want to be bound to any suggestion made to the policy framework in a short delay, without having followed the usual thorough and high-level internal process of data policy discussions. The focus of the M12 deliverable will need to be adapted and the strategy for facility consultation redesigned.</p>
<p>The other tasks are also struggling to go ahead, due to a lack of momentum which is not likely to get better with the summer and the loosening of the travel restrictions.
A <b>dedicated PC/WP2 meeting</b> will be planned to discuss this matter offline.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The <b>survey</b> from T3.2 is now closed, it had 52 responses. The results will be anonymised and analysed for an internal WP3 presentation. The preliminary results are really interesting. In parallel, Silvia is investigating with other projects to see how they make their ontologies available. Alun mentioned he would be starting the <b>M12 deliverable</b>.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- "<p>Kat reported on the current work on organising the <b>webinar on Kubernetes</b> and the replacement of one of the deliverables with a <b>third video</b> to finish the current series. This one will explain how light and neutron sources work. </p>
<p>The ExPaNDS <b>general presentation template</b> will also be updated by the end of the month to integrate the architecture.</p>"

aob: ""
---
