---
intro: "<p>  About the <b>INFRA-EOSC 03 call</b>, so far the foreseen partners to represent the PaN community are: ESRF, ILL, DESY and PSI TBC. It is not yet clear what will concretely be in the proposal for us but what is important is that the PaN community gets a seat at the table. Patrick suggested DESY would represented the other ExPaNDS partners as ESRF is representing other PaNOSC partners. For this, <b>a PaN use-case is being elaborated in crystallography</b>. Patrick will update the PEB with further information as soon as possible. It was agreed that after that, the CB should be informed.</p>
<p><i> N.B: LEAPS and LEANS would have been good candidates to represent the community but they are not yet legal entities. </i></p>
<p>Our PO asked for our participation to the <b>assessment of the EOSC</b> compared to the milestones set in its 2018 roadmap. A shared document1 was set up and lots of input were already given. Patrick and Sophie asked Alun and Anton to contribute so they can finish up and provide ExPaNDS’ feedback on time for Thursday, 28th.</p>
<p>About the EGI conference1 which is calling for abstracts, we agreed to apply for a PaN session with PaNOSC. The conference will take place in November 2020, before the ExPaNDS/PaNOSC annual meeting, in Amsterdam. The possibility to showcase synergies with EOSC-Life and ESCAPE were suggested. The actual focus of the session will be discussed, the deadline for the call is June, 19th.</p>
<p>Majid explained the difficulties of Soleil to recruit were not resolved, with no suitable candidate since the new announcement. It was agreed that Majid should send the details to Patrick and Sophie so that a plan B could be found. </p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reminded of the upcoming <b>interim report</b>, to get a first financial status of all partners. A table with the PMs and overall costs will be asked from all financial contacts next week. The technical twin report will consist of the updated progress reports.</p>
<p>The updated <b>KPIs</b> Valentina sent around need to be validated by the WP leaders. They will be included in the next reports. Concerning the <b>risks</b> update, WP2 mentioned they saw no additional risk to what Valentina sent. Valentina suggested a dedicated brainstorming to try and be more specific in the analysis. </p>
<p>Following EOSC-hub week, Sophie mentioned interesting achievements from other projects and suggested to name a <b>technical EOSC interface in WP3 and in WP4</b>. The summary posted internally at DESY will be shared to show the sort of achievements.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The PaNOSC data policy is now finished and Abigail explained WP2 has distributed roles for <b>ExPaNDS facilities consultation on the policy</b> to be held until mid-June. The glossary is also progressing.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>WP3 has contributed to PaNOSC’s <b>search API</b> deliverable. Concerning the survey, Alun and Silvia mentioned 41 responses had been obtained, showing common trends. The deadline was extended one last time to the 5th of June to get more input, notably from MaxIV and ISIS (which is important to get a neutron source point of view).</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The <b>reference use cases</b> are progressing with the shared document completed by each facility. Majid also reported that regular meeting are now in place, holding every two weeks.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>For the training session on FAIR, Abigail explained that current discussions with FAIRsFAIR led to the following: FAIRsFAIR would provide general content and ExPaNDS would add specific PaN content like the data policy and the DMPs. The targeted audience is facility scientists and staff. The workshops will be recorded and made available if possible, the modalities are still being discussed though. Sophie suggested to look at what <a href='https://training.ni4os.eu/'>Ni4os</a> had done regarding training with ‘BigBlueButton’.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle reported the last <b>ExPaNDS video</b> was successfully disseminated in the community, e.g. with lightsources and neutronsources.org.</p>
<p>The <b>upcoming webinar</b> on Kubernetes was discussed, especially if we should orientate it to the concrete issues of deploying the PaNOSC portal at our sites as Daniel and Jamie were planning to do in a transverse technical workshop. A specific meeting will be set up to progress on this (see actions). Isabelle wanted the first webinar to take place in June.</p>"

aob: "<p>Daniel presented ExPaNDS to his facility scientists in a recorded video available on <a href='https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kv1I3-dwbVs'>YouTube</a>!</p>"

---
