---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Mirjam, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Thibaud, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p><b>COVID consequences</b>: an email was sent around to partners via cb@expands.eu to evaluate the potential impacts. Updates will follow.</p>
<p><b>Reporting</b>: specific meetings with each WP leader, Patrick and Sophie have started and will carry on to help WP1 better track the technical progress against PM consumption.</p>
<p>For findability purposes, Brian will put <b>PaN data ODI deliverables</b> that are of useful input to us <b>in Zenodo</b> to get a DOI and link them to the ExPaNDS, PaNOSC and an umbrella community to be created.</p>
<p><b>Update on annual meeting</b>:</p>
<ul><li>1st day plenary with external speakers (Jan Hrusak, 1 for FAIR, 1 “visionary”)</li>
    <li>2nd day WP meetings</li>
    <li>3rd day wrap-up: action plan for next months</li></ul>
<p>PaNOSC “EB” will meet and we’ll try and have a CB meeting also. The possibilities in the current schedule are Monday morning, Tuesday end of afternoon or Wednesday afternoon. Mirjam explained that for PSI to be best represented (because there is a clash with an important PSI quality review), having the CB on Wednesday (preferred) or Tuesday would make things easier. Sophie will see to that with ELI and contact the CB.</p>
<p>Brian informed that the RDA plenary (which is at the same time) is preparing for <b>remote participation</b> so we should also study the possibility for at least some people to participate remotely. Sophie will suggest this to the next annual meeting organisation meeting.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p><b>Draft rules of participation to the EOSC</b> were made public by the RoP WG. Mirjam explained ExPaNDS was at a too early stage to be able to provide feedback. Patrick agreed.</p>
<p>KPIs: Mirjam will get in contact with the WPs to <b>complete and refine the KPIs</b> from the proposal and get closer to PaNOSC’s.</p>
<p>Sophie informed that our best contribution to the <b>5b projects task forces</b> on policies, FAIR and onboarding, ExPaNDS being the only thematic project there, was still to be found. Brian offered to meet separately to discuss the FAIR TF. Kat and Thibaud are doing well with the TFs on dissemination and training.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Currently there is a lot of progress made consulting the WP2 contributors on the <b>data policy framework</b> with PaNOSC, which is much appreciated. The next steps will be to integrate the facilities, starting with a survey to compare their data policy status with the current draft framework. Abigail explained the methodology for the survey was being developed.</p>
<p>The need for a precise definition of the terms used emerged from the meetings so Brian started a <b>project glossary</b>.</p>
<p>The activity to produce <b>recommendations</b> for good data management also started.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun reported that the scientists <b>survey on search terms</b> was sent at the same time Diamond asked them to work from home. There are only few results and the deadline will be extended.</p>
<p>The work to clarify the general task on ontology is well advanced with regular meetings between WP2 and WP3. The minutes are available in the SharePoint (in Document Library/Meeting minutes).</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>A meeting to define the <b>test data sets</b> of areas of interest will hold this Friday to follow-up on last week’s meeting. </p>
<p>WP4 is also working on integration of the <b>PaNOSC portal</b>.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>The e-learning ELI platform (pan-learning.org) is migrating well and should soon be available.</p>
<p>A meeting to <b>organise the first workshop</b> is scheduled for this Thursday (April, 2nd). Remote possibilities will be assessed.</p>
<p>Uwe and Brian confirmed that with the current progress on FAIR, the 1st workshop should be dedicated to WP2 content.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Deliverable due M8: Info sheet on ExPaNDS and benefits of open data for RI users (Diamond)</p>
<p>For WP6 one of the Covid-19 impact is the delayed dissemination of the poster/video. Isabelle also made a contextual change to the video (changing the virus spread page). Its <b>publication in lightsources.org and neutronsources.org</b> is scheduled for Friday.</p>
<p>By the end of April the second video will be published, on the <b>benefit of open data</b>, under Daniel’s technical overview.</p>
<p>About the <b>webinar</b>, a first round-up of topics will be sent to the PEB for brainstorming by Kat next week. The WP6/WP meetings will also start again as of next week.</p>"

aob: "<p>EOSC Pillar webinar on landcaping results (open science national initiatives state-of-the-art for Austria, Belgium, France, Germany and Italy): 03.04 @13:00 CEST</p>"
---
