---
intro: "<p>Our PO regards the reasoning for our project <b>extension request</b> and the new milestone and deliverable layout as consistent and suggests to go ahead with the amendment process. Christian further informed Patrick that he will step down as our PO. Our new PO will be Pilar Ocon-Garces. She now manages all 5B's. However, Christian will accompany the amendment process and will still be the ExPaNDS backup PO in the future.</p> <p>In preparation of the <b>ESFRI-EOSC workshop</b> on 6-7th of Oct, Patrick inquired on horizontal infrastructures usage by ExPaNDS facilities. Brian mentioned that UKRI, as DESY, is linked 3rd party for PaNOSC through EGI, and has some involvement with WLCG, investigating fts, Rucio and CBM FS. There is also Géant’s EduTeams which we are all using for federated AAI.</p> <p>Patrick also confirmed that both EOSC-Future and EOSC-ACE (INFRA-EOSC 03 and 07 H2020 calls) were accepted.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>As Patrick mentioned, Sophie will start working on the actual amendment process in the EU portal now that the PO gave the green light. </p> <p>ExPaNDs was contacted by F1000 research about the <b>Open Research Europe</b> (<a href='https://open-research-europe.ec.europa.eu/'>ORE</a>) which is an open access platform financed by the European Commission. We could publish papers there and organise peer-review without any editorial bias. Sophie will get in touch for details, with Abigail, Kat and Patrick in the loop.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The finishing touches are being put on the upcoming workshop on FAIR. There is over 100 registered participants now!</p> <p>With the data policy framework published, WP2 is focusing on D2.2, <b>data management planning</b>. Brian mentioned last week’s useful discussion with Alun and Andy to coordinate D2.2 with WP3 and with PaNOSC.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun and Sylvie received some input from partners for the <b>landscape</b>, to refresh the results from the questionnaire from Dec. 2019. The deliverable is progressing, including the resolved synergy with WP2 (see above). </p> <p>Sylvie will upload the new version of the <b>ontology</b> to GitHub this Friday.</p> <p>Sophie asked whether we could put the results of the WP3 survey to beamline scientists in the form of a <b>‘user story’</b> so we can better showcase it with our partner projects in the 5b and EOSC secretariat. Sophie is to send deadline and guidelines to Sylvie, as well as the link to the <a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/researcher-engagement-and-use-cases'>Interest Group on use cases</a>. </p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Patrick mentioned that Michael was preparing for the technical meeting, linking DESY’s Jupyter and Kubernetes to the portal’s back-end.</p> <p>There are many questions on WP4 that hopefully the technical meeting will help answer.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Uwe reported WP5 was still evaluating portals for the <b>e-learning platform</b>. Existing portals are not very flexible in terms of customisation or to add content from different sources. We need to link to an existing platform because we don’t have enough content as only ExPaNDS and PaNOSC, and it is also more sustainable. </p> <p>There will also be training in EOSC-Future with DESY as task leader, so some complementarities to ExPaNDS and PaNOSC could be found.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat was very successful in disseminating the two upcoming events for ExPaNDS, for which we have more registrants than expected:
<ul>
  <li>WP2 workshop on FAIR: <b>101 registrants</b> for day 1 and 85 for day 2, with a notable exposure via NFFA-EU, who relayed the information on their channel. Alun wondered if it was worth also going to the CPP4 where lots of beamline people were. Brian will consider it.</li>
  <li>Daniel’s technical workshop: <b>76 registrants</b>.</li>
</ul></p> <p>Kat also reported she was tracking the registrants’ background for WP5 <b>KPIs</b>. Abigail inquired if there were other KPI requirements coming from WP1, for the post-event survey for example. Sophie confirmed there was no other need than WP5’s.</p> <p>The invitation to register to the <b>ExPaNDS/PaNOSC annual meeting</b> was also launched on different channels (EOSC liaison platform, Twitter, LinkedIn, expands.eu) and Kat will notify all@expands.eu in the following days.</p>"

aob: "<p>Abigail mentioned the chair of the 5B projects <b>task force on FAIR</b> was wondering if she could remove the ‘silent members’ of the TF, that is Patrick, Brian and Sophie and only keep the ‘active’ ones, that is Abigail. If it is not a bother, all three would like to remain in the channel to keep up-to-date with the activities of this TF.</p> <p>Andy’s presentation of PaNOSC (and ExPaNDS) at <b>ESS-ILL user meeting</b> was uploaded in <a href='https://dlsltd.sharepoint.com/:p:/r/sites/GRA0046/Shared%20Documents/General/Presentations'>SharePoint</a>, it is worth a look.</p>"
---
