---
intro: "<h2>Shift of M12 deliverables and milestones</h2> <p>As a result of last PEB and the discussions on the deliverables due M12 (Aug. 2020), the following shifts were submitted and accepted by our PO:</p> <table>
  <tr>
    <th>Deliverables</th>
    <th>Due</th>
    <th>Moved to</th>
    <th>Linked to</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>D2.2</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>15</td>
    <td>M10</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>D3.1</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>14</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>D6.4</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>16</td>
    <td>M20, M5</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>D6.15</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>14</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Milestones</th>
    <th>Due</th>
    <th>Moved to</th>
    <th>Linked to</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>M5</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>15</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>M10</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>15</td>
    <td>D2.2</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>M20</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>16</td>
    <td>D6.4</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>M21</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>14</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>M22</td>
    <td>12</td>
    <td>20</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</table><p>For more details, see in appendix the rest of the message from Patrick to our PO.</p><h2>Overall strategy for the extension</h2><p>Patrick and Sophie are preparing the document to justify the extension. It contains the rescheduling of milestones and deliverables and the other mitigation actions like the shift from F2F to online events. The help of WP5 and WP6 will be needed to review this section in particular. As mentioned last time, this document will be submitted to the PO beginning of September at the latest.</p> <p>For the rescheduling part, a recap of all individual plans was made during the meeting for WP2, 3, 5 and 6. WP2, WP4 and WP6 will send the updated plan to Patrick and Sophie who will compile them for the whole project and work on the overall consistency. The interfaces with other projects will also need to be detailed.</p> <h2>Feedback on EOSC SRIA</h2><p>Patrick presented the request by the EOSC EB to provide <a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/open-consultation-eosc-strategic-research-and-innovation-agenda'>feedback on the SRIA</a>. There are different levels to provide this feedback and the first one is the facility. Patrick thus encouraged all partners to steer their facility to reply. On the ExPaNDS level, he asked all WP leaders to make themselves familiar with the document and questionnaire and state what they find is missing or wrong for our community. As a basis, Patrick suggested the following main points:</p> <p>1. Communities are not represented enough in the strategy. We would benefit from a forum where we can express our concerns on what the EOSC is building for us.</p> <p>2. There are plenty of interesting initiatives other projects are doing and it is up to us to find out about them. We would suggest a central expert in EOSC who could link relevant initiatives to projects which would benefit from them. E.g. the ESCAPE data lake which could be a game changer for PaNOSC WP6.</p> <p>3. To make FAIR data sustainable for the future, we suggest the EOSC could take responsibility of the governance of the data after the owner facility has finished using it.</p> <p>The contribution from each WP leader is expected for next Tuesday and the common response will be presented during next PEB. We will also share it with PaNOSC and the other 5b projects to make sure our views are concurrent.</p> <h2>Technical workshop</h2> <p>Kat reminded the PEB of the technical workshop to be held on the 8th of October. After a first notice to the TCB by Daniel, a mail was sent to all@expands.eu to encourage a more general public to register. </p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- ""

aob: "<p>The terms ‘webinar’ and ‘e-learning’ are protected in Germany so we’ll need to avoid using them for our public dissemination and events...</p><h1>Appendix</h1><h2>D2.1 Draft extended data policy framework for Photon and Neutron RIs</h2><p>New Date: (12) In Time</p><h2>D2.2 Draft recommendations for FAIR Photon and Neutron Data Management</h2><p>New Date: (15) Nov 2020</p><p>Explanation: The deliverable was scheduled for the same month as D2.1, assuming there would be two different working groups in WP2. However, due to limited resources, those working groups are essentially the same people. So they have to finish D2.1 first and then can work on D2.2</p><p>Linked to Milestone: none</p><h2>D3.1 Report on status, gap analysis and roadmap towards ...</h2><p>New Date: (14) Oct 2020</p><p>Explanation: This definitely suffers from late hirings of some of the partners, primarily involved in WP3.</p><p>Linked to Milestone: none</p><h2>D6.4 Vision and roadmap documents for key audiences</h2><p>New Date: (16) Dec. 2020,</p><p>Explanation: 'Roadmap and Vision' depends on the technical work packages, which are late, (see D3.1) and on the 'All Hands Meeting'. The 'All Hands Meeting' (see M5) was moved to Nov, as a result of the goal to have this meeting collocated with PaNOSC.  (Nov at ELI). The move of the 'All Hands Meeting' is not COVID related.</p><p>Linked to Milestone: M5</p><h2>D6.15 Dedicated European user meeting focused on ExPaNDS</h2><p>New Date: (14) Oct 2020</p><p>Explanation: Almost all of our facilities have banned users from their premises and only a very limited number of local beam-line scientists were allowed to run experiments, if at all. This is only slowly ramping up again. Therefore there was only little opportunity to get in touch with users. However, as the situation is not really improving we are working on a mitigation plan to move on.</p><p>We have a user meeting idea that we are currently working in collaboration with Lightsources.org for the autumn (October 2020). We have gained the support from the LS.org Canadian chair and it is in the early planning stages, with a view to promoting it once it has been set.  In addition, we are in talks with WP2 for the FAIRs webinars scheduled for October plus we have scheduled the Technical (online) Workshop organised by our technical Director, also in October.</p><p>So, fingers crossed, we hope to have an equivalent of the planned European Users Meeting by end of October.</p><h2>MS5: First All Hands meeting Organised</h2><p>New Date: (14 - 15) First half of Nov (already fully planned)</p><p>Explanation: We moved this milestone to beginning of November to collocate it with the PaNOSC annual meeting in Prague at the ELI facilities. This give us a larger crowd and we can share resources. Finally this shift allowed us to collocate with a Symposium on PaN EOSC, shared organised by PaNOSC and us, with invited guests like You, Rupert, Tiziana and others.</p><h2>MS 10: (D 2.2) 'Production of draft FAIR data framework'</h2><p>New Date: (15) Nov 2020</p><p>Explanation: This is the result of moving D2.2 to Nov.</p><p>Linked to : D2.2</p><h2>MS 20: 'Vision and Roadmap Documents'</h2><p>New Date: (16) Dec. 2020,</p><p>Linked to: D6.4</p><p>Explanation: See D6.4</p><h2>MS 21: 'Reference from community web site'</h2><p>New Date : (13) Sep, 2020</p><h2>MS 22: 'ESOF and AAAS Attendance'</h2><p>New Date:  (24) Aug, 2021</p><p>Explanation: Regarding ESOF and AAAS, we feel that the opportunities online are no longer meeting our grant's objectives of networking with funding agencies etc. So alternatives will be looked at.</p><p>For those two conferences, the only options were to agree on some sponsoring, which I personally was not happy with. The goal of the deliverable was to meet people/stakeholders of different areas and not  to support them financially.</p><p>A cheap alternative would have been to provide online posters, however that won't give us much visibility. So the idea is to shift this deliverable by a year, hoping that either we'll have similar conferences taking place in real or that we and the various conference organisers find new ways of networking online.</p>"
---
