---
intro: "<p>ExPaNDS, contrary to PaNOSC, doesn't have any efforts in important areas like <b>AAI and data management</b> (data transfer, data orchestration, quality of storage). However, Patrick stressed that those topics are also important for our facilities. Therefore he asked to point him to ExPaNDS contributors who would be interested in the work of PaNOSC/WP6 (actively or passively), subscribing to the WP6/PaNOSC mailing list, connecting to their slack channel and joining their meetings. <br>
It would also be an opportunity to work with ESCAPE and its <b>data lake</b> concept, something we should keep an eye on. Alun noted that we were almost all connected to national initiatives that are usually providing data management solutions but Patrick said it was not necessarily enough to cover transnational issues. Data management is essential for the A in FAIR. Isabelle suggested suitable contacts for Diamond.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie confirmed the <b>amendment request</b> had been accepted by the EC and that our PO mentioned we did an exhaustive work that “made his task easy”. The new deadlines for <a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/deliverables.html'>deliverables</a> and <a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/milestones.html'>milestones</a> are now updated accordingly in <a href='https://dlsltd.sharepoint.com/:u:/r/sites/GRA0046/Shared%20Documents/'>SharePoint</a> and GitHub.</p>
<p>Following the annual meeting, Jordi, Valentina and Sophie updated together the <b>risk analysis</b> for ExPaNDS, that is now delivered to the EC. During the discussions we realised that in PaNOSC they have all facilities represented at their PMC (our PEB) which sometimes makes their life easier. Sophie asked the PEB about the idea to have an <b>extended-version of the PEB</b> once in a while where all facilities would be represented. The PEB agreed and decided to give it a try for the meeting scheduled on the 19th of January 2021. Sophie will contact the CB members of the missing facilities to ask for a representative.</p>
<p>Kat also suggested to send the link to the PEB minutes to all@expands.eu to remind everyone they were available for them to follow ExPaNDS developments.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail reported that the <b>FAIR data management deliverable</b> was currently being internally reviewed with a deadline for reviewers set to the 3rd of December (this Thursday) EOB. Daniel will organise a follow-up meeting to finalise the document with the group once all reviews are gathered.</p>
<p>Abigail also mentioned the necessity to have <b>senior management participate in the data policy consultations</b> at every facility and that meetings with them should be booked soon to progress on this task. She asked for some advice on the right contact persons at the facilities not directly involved in WP2.</p> <p>WP2’s DMP and PID tasks will officially be kicked-off in January with planned meetings on the 7th and the 14th.</p>
<p>Sophie reported on last week’s <b>5b task force on FAIR assessment tools</b> where EC representative were present, including Christian. ExPaNDS had a 5-min lightning talk where she presented how the key elements of the data policy framework were used for facilities consultations and the first assessment of the FAIR maturity of our data catalogues with the D3.1 deliverable. <br>
FAIRsFAIR is adding a FAIR layer to the <a href='https://www.coretrustseal.org/'>CoreTrustSeal</a> certification of data repositories with an automatic assessment tool called <a href='https://www.fairsfair.eu/f-uji-automated-fair-data-assessment-tool'><b>F-UJI</b></a>. It is developed using the criteria of <a href='https://doi.org/10.15497/RDA00050'>RDA’s FAIR Maturity Model</a>. We should look at it for our data catalogues. It is however only a general-purpose assessment and of course does not cover the PaN-specific aspects to qualify the metadata as ‘rich enough’.</p>
<p>Finally, Abigail pointed to the publication of <a href='https://en.unesco.org/news/unesco-who-and-high-commissioner-human-rights-call-open-science'><b>UNESCO draft recommendations on open science</b></a>, linking it to the human rights, a paper that is having a wide echo in the community right now. The draft is open to feedback until the 31th of December 2020 and Abigail wondered whether we should try and send an ExPaNDS feedback.</p>
"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun reported WP3 now focused on the <b>ontology</b> deliverable due end of May 2021 and lead by Diamond. He also confirmed the <b>assessment of the individual progress towards FAIR data catalogues</b> presented in the status and roadmap deliverable (D3.1) was indeed to be used as a WP3 KPI. Sophie and Alun agreed to have the quotation presented on a 100 basis (instead of 10) and updated ~ every 6 months.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton reported that last WP4 meeting focused on the upcoming deliverable 4.1 “<b>Guidelines for implementing the national RI’s analysis services within the EOSC</b>”, which was discussed and started. </p> <p>In parallel, the <b>test instances of the portal</b> continue being prepared, in particular with DESY and XFEL working together on the subject. Patrick mentioned XFEL was considering having the <b>PaN portal as part of the official XFEL infrastructure</b>, thus greatly increasing the chances to have it sustained after the projects end.</p>
<p>Anton also noted that the <b>integration of the data catalogues</b>, i.e. the interface with WP3 needed to be addressed. Alun mentioned WP3 was participating in the PaNOSC WP4 meetings to keep an eye on it.</p>"
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle stressed that the upcoming focus of WP6 would be on the <b>roadmap</b> deliverable due by the end of the year and on the <b>user meeting</b> to be organised before the end of February 2021. To progress on both, Kat will send invitations to each WP leader before the holidays to gather their input. </p>
<p>Following one of Daniel’s suggestion during the annual meeting, Isabelle is also looking at how to connect on a more regular face-to-face basis with <b>local communication teams</b> at partner facilities.</p>
<p>Kat mentioned the training workshop on FAIR recordings and survey results would be made available soon.</p>"

aob: "<p>Before the meeting, Andy updated Sophie on the form for <b>scientists to autonomously upload use cases</b> which is in preparation in the PaNOSC website. It will use the template for use cases presented by the coordinators during the annual meeting.</p>
<p>Sophie also reminded of the plan for a <b>common EOSC-hub/ExPaNDS workshop on DMPs</b>, with a preparatory meeting scheduled probably for the 11th of December (to be confirmed by DANS).</p>
<p>Kat mentioned that during the <b>5b task force on communication</b>, FAIRsFAIR was keen to do another FAIR workshop with ExPaNDS. This will be followed-up by the training TF. Abigail confirmed she was in regular contact with FAIRsFAIR’s contributors at STFC.</p>"
---
