---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Majid, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p>The common <b>ESCAPE-PaNOSC workshop on data management</b> facilitated by Patrick and Kat is planned for the 12th of January, the program will be sent as soon as we receive the final input from Jean-François (PaNOSC WP6). The workshop will focus specifically on the data lake concept.</p>
<p>Thanks to the different input received, Patrick reported that Rudolf managed to put together a satisfactory update for PaN in the new version of the <b>EOSC Future</b> proposal.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie asked for the PEB’s support for the <b>financial report</b> due for the end of the year, to make sure the finance teams of the remaining facilities were aware of the request and ready to deliver.</p>
<p>The <b>progress reports</b> for WP2 and WP4 need to be updated in January. Sophie will come back to the WP leaders with the draft report and will ask for a 1-hour face-to-face to discuss overall progress on all tasks and next steps, with Patrick and Daniel.</p>
<p>Next year, WP1 is planning to involve EGI more, especially with the preparation of the upcoming <b>workshop on EOSC</b>.</p>
<p>Daniel announced that his recruitment went through, with a newcomer starting on the 11th of January for ALBA WP2-3-4.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian was happy to confirm the delivery of the <b>draft recommendations for FAIR PaN data management</b> (D2.2). This document triggered complicated discussions which we managed to transform into a very interesting result. The hard work of each contributor was praised and the document’s quality was confirmed also by Patrick. </p>
<p>For the start of the next task on DMPs, Brian confirmed Jon from PaNOSC will be involved. For the start of the task on PIDs, WP3 will also be involved (see WP3 chapter).</p>
<p>Brian reminded of the importance for WP2 of the <b>consultation exercise</b> with the facilities on the data policies in 2021, which will be complemented by a specific event targeted to librarians and data policy facility staff, organised jointly with WP6.</p>
<p>Finally Brian mentioned the <b>upcoming RDA meeting in April 2021</b> in Edinburgh (and remotely), where he is planning to get the <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/groups/research-data-needs-photon-and-neutron-science-community.html'>PaN SIG</a> revived. He discussed with Andy, who was interested to jointly submit a paper on FAIR data practices for facilities. The deadline is the 12th of January. For the paper we need to involve at least one facility outside of Europe, for which any suggestion from the PEB is welcome. The network of lightsources.org will also be used, thanks to WP6. </p>"
#WP3
- "<p>PaNOSC and ExPaNDS both have deliverables around the same time in the first quarter of 2021: a working federated search (PaNOSC) and a first PaN ontology (ExPaNDS). Alun reported they worked on making the two deliverables feed into each other and allow parallel work.</p>
<p>There is a sub-group in WP3 led by Steve Collins dedicated to <b>ontology</b>. He has a PhD student working on experimental techniques, who will be presenting his works to WP3 at the beginning of the new year. Sylvie added that they were working to turn the ontology, which is currently a NeXus spreadsheet, into a service: an actual repository with e.g. terms of use.</p>
<p>Alun also mentioned MaxIV reaching out to ask our community for <b>implementation practices for DOIs</b>. It was decided that the interested WP3 contributors would be invited to the first PID meeting of WP2 (on the 14th Jan), where the overall PID scene will be set. This will then allow for another meeting to follow-up more specifically on DOIs implementation.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton reminded WP4 focused on the <b>portal deployment</b> at DESY, working very closely with PaNOSC/XFEL. Patrick drew Andy’s attention to the issue about ILL not developing the portal on Kubernetes but only on VMs. A solution will need to be found with PaNOSC, it is starting to be complicated to go further with the deployment.</p>
<p>Patrick also reported the <b>2 hands-on sessions on the portal deployment at DESY</b> provided by Michael, which attracted over 40 participants from our different facilities. Anton confirmed it was interesting sessions that encouraged him to develop more CI/CD pipelines and that it will probably require a follow-up.</p>
<p>Patrick also mentioned the issue between EGI check-in (the AAI for our federated cloud) and <b>EduTeams</b> (umbrella ID, the PaN AAI) who are not agreeing. A situation we need to keep an eye on. </p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud will soon distribute the <b>survey on training needs and material</b> to all ExPaNDS facilities, with WP6’s help. </p>
<p>Thibaud also managed to get ExPaNDS a <b>10-minutes-presentation during <a href='https://www.synchrotron-soleil.fr/en/events/su2-2021-instead-sum2021'>Soleil’s user meeting (SU²)</a></b>. He suggested Patrick as a presenter, who agreed.</p>
<p>The first discussions with DANS regarding the workshop on DMPs, to be offered to ExPaNDS by EOSC-hub took place last Friday. The event itself will happen before the end of March 2021 and a first draft programme will be distributed by DANS to both WP2 and WP5 for feedback. We agreed this was an <b>introductory training workshop on DMPs</b> but that we will need an additional specific ExPaNDS workshop once the developments in the task on DMPs will be available (~end of 2021).</p>
<p>PaNOSC is planning to have its <b>“train the trainers” workshop</b> to learn how to add content in the e-learning platform in February or March (the invitation will be distributed soon). It will be limited to 30 participants, Thibaud encouraged interested parties to register.</p>
<p>Finally, Thibaud reported Soleil was in the process of hiring someone for WP5 to work on the portal, also because Nazaré will be leaving the project as soon as the end of February.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle reported an upcoming update of the website with the videos of our recent events this week.</p>
<p>The <b>roadmap</b> due this month is progressing well and was already reviewed with WP1 and WP2. Three more meetings are planned this week to discuss it with WP3, 4 and 5 before delivering to the Commission.</p>
<p>A monthly meeting will now take place with <b>PaNOSC comms</b>, with an additional one-on-one catch-up every two weeks between Nicoletta and Kat.</p>
<p>The meeting with the <b>comm-teams from every RI</b>, using the network of communicators developed by WP6, is being planned for the 1st half of January.</p>
<p>In January also, Isabelle reported WP6 would follow-up on the <b>internal survey</b> mentioned during the annual meeting for the project to give feedback to the dissemination strategy.</p>
<p>As drafted in the roadmap, Isabelle finally stressed the two next major events to be organised:</p>
<ul>
  <li>the <b>outreach event with librarians and data policy staff</b> of our facilities, jointly with WP2,</li>
  <li>the <b>user meeting event with EOSC-Life</b>, focused on a life-science use case - our ‘quick-win’ use case - to be held before the review meeting, jointly with WP3, WP4 and EOSC-Life.</li>
</ul>"

aob: "<p>Sophie mentioned the <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/28139/overview'>DESY Photon Science and XFEL user meeting</a>, taking place from the 25th to the 29th of January. Anton is leading a satellite meeting on data and metadata for PETRA III which will be of interest to WP3.</p>
<p>We need to start thinking of an ExPaNDS site to suggest to PaNOSC for our next annual meeting.</p>"
---
