---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Andrei, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Majid, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p>Patrick submitted our ExPaNDS response to the SRIA yesterday. ALBA and PSI also responded as facilities. Patrick mentioned that for Germany, our main points were taken for the Helmholtz and the NGI DE responses. </p> <p>The request for the extension is following its process, after the review by the PEB it was sent to the ExPaNDS CB, who is to approve it by the end of the week (in a meeting or via online vote). The shift in deliverables and milestones was shared after last PEB with PaNOSC and the 5B projects to detect possible negative impacts.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported the decision of the organising team to have a <b>100% online annual meeting</b> instead of pushing to keep it partially F2F in Prague. The program was adapted a bit: the WP day which was originally on Tuesday is left for each WP leader to organise whenever they think is best. The WPs will need to be prepared to report during the two sessions on progress and roadmap originally planned for Wednesday. The Indico page with the draft agenda is <a href='https://indico.eli-beams.eu/event/376/'>here</a>. Final modifications are being made but the invitation to register will be disseminated soon (probably this week).</p> <p>WP1 gave feedback to the <b><a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/questions-validation-readiness-indicators'>KPIs</a> issued by EOSC landscape activities</b> which can be found in the <a href='https://dlsltd.sharepoint.com/:b:/r/sites/GRA0046/Shared%20Documents/WP1/Feedback-EOSC-KPIs-5b.pdf?csf=1&web=1&e=pbIFaY'>Sharepoint</a>.</p> <p>For a <b>transparent reporting</b> for future EU reviewers, during the summer Sophie prepared a webpage containing our PEB meeting minutes and progress reports, as well as the deliverables and milestones status. The page is <a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/'>here</a> and the source code is in our GitHub (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/WP1-reporting'>WP1-reporting repository</a>). It is work-in-progress and an attempt for public reporting since SharePoint needs credentials. Any sort of feedback is very welcome.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Andrei confirmed the <b>D2.1 data policy deliverable</b> was in internal review for a foreseen delivery next week. Abigail presented the approach for this data policy framework to the 5b task force on FAIR last week which received a lot of interest. Andrei consequently asked how public the document was before EC review and which channels we had to share and publish it. <br>
Patrick confirmed we didn’t need to wait for the EC review to make the deliverable public, their approval happening at mid-term at the earliest. Sophie added that after uploading the final deliverable to the EU portal she would also upload it to Zenodo, making it public.</p><p>WP2 is also working on <b>harmonising the PaNdata ODI</b>, Andrei reporting they detected a lack of terms and metadata elements they are planning to fill.</p> <p>Regarding the work on the <b>glossary</b>, Andrei reported difficulties in reaching consensus, which could be solved if more experts from the PaN community were involved. Instead of using the EOSC channels to call for participation to the work meetings on the glossary as was first brought up, Patrick suggested to find the experts we needed and contact them directly.</p> <p>For dissemination channels, once the deliverables are published, WP2 can refer to Isabelle and Kat to find the best means of publishing / sharing them. Zenodo, EOSCsecretariat and Twitter were given as examples.</p> <p>Kat also mentioned the <b>registration to the online workshop on FAIR</b> would open by the end of this week.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun reminded the upcoming meetings on <b>experimental techniques</b> for T3.2. He also explained the <b>outline of the D3.1 deliverable</b>:
<ul>
  <li>status of facilities based on <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3673811'>this survey results</a> and including some updates,</li>
  <li>comparison with other domains,</li>
  <li>roadmap with all stages for the technical implementation of the federated catalogues,</li>
  <li>gap analysis per site with a template to be filled by each facility.</li>
</ul>
Alun is planning to distribute the latter template by the end of the week to be able to stick to an internal review of the deliverable starting end of Sept.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton is working on having a server up and running at DESY to <b>emulate the PaNOSC portal and link the datasets</b>. The plan is to have “something” for the October technical workshop. This test instance would then be available for all partners to access and progress on the testing framework.</p> <p>Daniel reminded the presentation for the <b>technical workshop</b> also aims at sharing what did <u>not</u> work, so DESY’s input will be valuable anyway. Regarding the workshop, he reported 47 people registered already which was really good. HZB, HZDR, ISIS and ESRF also submitted answers to the survey and SOLEIL, ALBA and EUXFEL are planning to do so in the additional two weeks that were granted.<br>
Only the confirmed number of presentations is too low, with PSI, HZDR, ELI and ALBA presenting so far. Daniel emphasised that he hoped every facility would present, even if they didn’t yet progress much (or at all) on the ‘portal experience’. A reminder will be sent in that sense, giving the 11th of Sept as a deadline to be able to build the agenda of the workshop accordingly.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud finished his <b>D5.1 annual report</b> on time for it to be submitted to the EU portal yesterday.</p> <p>Uwe and him discussed about which WP leader they wished to meet during the annual meeting’s ‘WP day’ which was almost all of them for 1 hour each. Given the format change to online, these meetings can be scheduled anytime before the annual meeting or on the 10th afternoon.</p> <p>Uwe also reported that Oliver was <b>testing platforms</b> and that we would present his results to the WP.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle is in close liaison with <b>communicators at PaN facilities</b> for the dissemination of the WP2 upcoming training workshop on FAIR and the ‘portal architecture test experience.</p> <p>Sponsorship opportunities still reveal to be too expensive for the few networking possibilities they offer online. The user meeting with lightsources.org also presents some challenges, WP6 is rethinking how to best adapt.</p> <p>Good news: Kat will represent ExPaNDS in a <b>poster session at the SOLARIS user meeting</b> next week, with the infographics on the <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3780053'>benefits of open data</a>.</p>"

aob: "<p>Andrei is planning the presentation of his tests with <b>IPFS</b> around the 24th of September. He will send a doodle for a 1h-presentation including questions.</p>"
---
