---
intro: "<p>The request from the EOSC executive board to have access to ExPaNDS list of deliverables, due dates and parts of DoW was shared with EB. All present consented, the others will get a chance to give their point of view offline (see actions).</p>
<p>Update on annual meeting and the fact that the simultaneity with the RDA plenary would probably not be enough to change now to the October option. Final decision should follow soon (in the meantime, book the 9-10-11 of November).</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Deliverables due M6:</p>
<ul><li><b>General Architecture in relation to the EOSC services (EGI)</b>: update on progress and challenges, we want to deliver it tonight. Patrick also mentioned we will try and get the PO to review it before the mid-term review since it is a structuring deliverable. A meeting will soon be called by PC with WP3/4/TC to build on the architecture and draw the road map for the next 6 months.</li>
    <li><b>Sustainability policy report (PSI)</b>: will be shared in the coming days (PSI did commit to it).</li>
    <li><b>POPD - Requirement No. 1 (DESY)</b>: delivered on time, consequences for consent forms discussed.</li></ul>
<p>The deliverables process must be improved. WP1 will make efforts to know who is in charge of each upcoming deliverable sooner. WP leaders will be encourage to identify lead authors and make sure they are aware of it.</p>"
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud commented on the workshop on training in EOSC he attended last week: he will share the outcome of it (general and high-level guidelines for training, rules of participation). He wishes to see the scientific users more represented to these events (lots of open science experts, no scientists). Patrick reminded our privileged channel to reach the EOSC for now was the INFRAEOSC-5B task forces.</p>
<p></p>
<p></p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Deliverable due M6: <b>Engage science communicators based at PAN RIs + Infographic of metrics and KPI linked to WP2, 3 and 4 + ExPaNDS presentation for conferences (Diamond)</b>: All three delivered on time! Publicity on them to follow, with an event/meeting/something to relate to, to make it more striking.</p>
<p>The next deliverable is due M8 by Diamond: Standard Information sheet on ExPaNDS and the benefits of Open Data for RI users. A brainstorming will soon take place between Isabelle and Kat. PaNOSC and WP2 will be asked to contribute.</p>
<p>Kat shared the challenges for the Dedicated European user meeting focused on ExPaNDS due this summer. Anton will not present at IUCr and other leads must be found. With the foreseeable restriction on travel, this deliverable is more than uncertain for now!</p>"

aob: "<p>ICAT F2F meeting @ESRF (<a href='https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/42/'>link to indico</a>) on 10-11.03.2020 (registration deadline 05.03.2020)</p>
<p>FAIRsFAIR synchronisation force workshop on 29.04.2020 (invitation only)</p>"
---
