---
intro: "<h2>PaNOSC and ExPaNDS joint annual meeting</h2>
<p>The PaNOSC/ExPaNDS meeting will take place in Prague, on Nov. 9-10-11 noon to noon. Soleil confirmed the fact that they could attend during the French public holiday.</p>
<p>About the suggested format, as experienced by WP3 during the last weeks, a cross-WP meeting between WP3 and WP4 could be a good opportunity to progress on architecture. It will be suggested we add this to the agenda of the second day.</p>
<h2>Deliverables</h2>
<p>The <b>Project Quality Assurance Plan (PSI)</b> and the <b>Data Management Plan (DESY)</b> were both delivered to the EU. Zenodo as a repository for our public deliverables will now be used. ExPaNDS contributors will be encouraged to have an ORCID so they can be uniquely identified in Zenodo. It was also decided that the published deliverables be available on expands.eu. WP6 confirmed it was ongoing work.</p>
<p><b>General Architecture in relation to the EOSC services (EGI)</b>: this deliverable is progressing thanks to a joint effort of Diego and Daniel to shape the document. The architecture itself is currently being discussed mainly between the participants of the 07.02 F2F meeting for WP4. It was agreed now that the results of these discussions should be shared to a wider audience (WP2-3-4) to get their input. </p>
<p><b>Sustainability policy report (PSI)</b>: will be shared in the coming weeks.</p>
<p><b>Engage science communicators based at PAN RIs (Diamond)</b>: for personal data protection reasons and because it is a public deliverable, this cannot be published as a database of contacts.  WP6 is reviewing the alternatives (e.g. using a JiscMail list).</p>
<p><b>Infographic of metrics and KPI linked to WP2, 3 and 4 (Diamond)</b>: WP6 confirmed this deliverable would be submitted for review by Thursday (20.02.2020) at the latest, including the associated video.</p>
<p><b>ExPaNDS presentation for conferences (Diamond)</b>: WP6 confirmed the ’not targeted’ presentation will be submitted for review by the beginning of next week (24-25.02.2020).</p>
<p><b>POPD - Requirement No. 1 (DESY)</b>: WP1 is currently reviewing this deliverable with DESY’s DPO and will submit it to the concerned partners (at least Diamond, Soleil, UKRI and DESY, to be confirmed by DPO) for review as soon as possible.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>In addition to the work on the deliverables, WP1 suggests WP5 participate in the 5B projects task force on FAIR so they can be involved in the FAIRsFAIR synchronisation workshops.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>A recruitment is under way at STFC to assist Brian on ExPaNDS WP2, and a new person should arrive in March. Brian, Andy and Daniel agreed on meeting to talk about the data policy and Brian will attend PaNOSC’s Data policy VC on the 19.02.2020 at 1pm CET.</p>
<p>FYI, the <a href='http://www.data-intelligence.org/p/67/'>issue of Data Intelligence on FAIR principles</a> is worth reading and some of their recommendations will be added to the working data policy framework.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The main achievements of the F2F meeting of WP3² in Lund are:</p>
<ul><li>General agreement on the common API v1</li>
<li>Relationship to WP4 work clarified</li>
<li>Discussions on architecture going quite well</li>
</ul>
<p>The distribution of T3.2 (ExPaNDS ontology) between the partners must be clarified with WP2 and WP6. Alun is seeing to it. It was reminded a similar work on ontology was made for the PaN data project.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>The F2F meeting with ESS is postponed since PaNOSC’s platform expert is unavailable for now. WP5 is participating in the 5B project task force on training (first meeting tomorrow, 19.02.2020). The call for participation to the EOSC WG on training will also be examined.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>In addition to the work on the deliverables, WP6 is planning a talk for ExPaNDS during the micro symposia at IUCr (the plenary and key sessions are already booked) and seeing to it with Anton (WP4). Andy mentioned he would be giving a talk at the workshop on raw data management (<a href='https://www.iucr.org/resources/data/commdat/prague-workshop-cx'>link</a>) and that it would be good if the PaN community was represented at the one on MX data formats, metadata and validation (<a href='https://www.iucr.org/resources/data/commdat/prague-workshop-mx-raw-data'>link</a>).</p>
<p>The participation at SXNS event in Lund end of June will not be pursued.</p>"

aob: ""
---
