---
intro: "<p>  Along with the other 5b projects, ExPaNDS is writing a position paper on EOSC. To have a common position for the PaN community, Andy gracefully agreed we can reuse PaNOSC’s paper. There are however a few added items and Sophie asked for a review by the PEB (including Andy) before the end of the week. </p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>For the <b>panel discussion on EOSC</b> during the November annual meeting, Mirjam will see if she can organize herself to attend by the end of the week. In this case the CB would be moved to Monday also (which is still compatible with the programme).</p>
<p>For the second talk of the plenary session, Brian will talk to Susanna Sansone.</p>
<p>Sophie updated on the <b>progress reports</b> that are currently being written for each WP. WP3’s report is available in the SharePoint, WP2 and WP4 are being finalised. The reports for WP1, 5 and 6 will then follow (not started yet).</p>
<p>The EOSC-hub documents on the future <b>EOSC helpdesk, accounting and monitoring</b> was briefly introduced. It was agreed a feedback would be given to these documents before the 8th of May.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail updated on the current works concerning the <b>data policy</b> being evaluated against the <b>RDA data maturity model</b>. The next step will be to start the <b>consultations with our facilities</b>. UKRI will ask for help from Soleil and PSI, the other 2 contributors to this task. Mirjam said the contact point for PSI was Valentina.<br>
<i>Off meeting: As long as the open position for SOLEIL is not filled, Majid and Brigitte remain the contact points for SOLEIL for WP2.</i></p>
<p>Concerning the <b>glossary</b>, the gathering of terms and definitions is coming to an end. The next step will be to reach a <b>consensus</b> on one definition per term with every contributor. Abigail also mentioned she’s been discussing with the EOSC glossary and that their approach was a bit different and not directly applicable to ExPaNDS.</p>
<p>To fill in the KPI on the <b>number of data DOIs issued by our partner facilities</b>, Brian said the datacite repository could be used directly, searching by facility. Abigail added she was looking for an <b>automatic way</b> to retrieve the data.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The WP3 workshop that was supposed to be held in M6 was not officially done like this but the objectives behind it were attained (clarification of the distribution of work between WP2, WP6 and WP3 on ontologies, coordination of activities with WP4). Patrick asked for a <b>written justification</b>.</p>
<p>Concerning the <b>survey on search terms</b>, the answers are still too “photon and Diamond centered”, but the partners are distributing it to their scientists (in progress at Soleil, Alba and HZDR). Sophie and Kat will also advertise it on EOSC platforms.</p>
<p>It raised the importance of explaining beforehand to our facilities scientists what ExPaNDS is concretely going to offer. In “COVID work mode”, it has been a bit complicated but Kat reminded what support was available in the SharePoint and Daniel and Alun are planning online presentations. Uwe mentioned he already used the poster to present ExPaNDS at HZDR.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>For the <b>first workshop on FAIR</b>, there was some discussions with FAIRsFAIR to see what content could be re-used. They also advised us on not trying to cover every FAIR topic in only one workshop. </p>
A task force with Uwe and PaNOSC to <b>plan the workshops</b> is in place with regular meetings. Thibaut also explained we was collecting <b>existing training content</b> from the facilities that could be already uploaded to the platform. We asked for technical contacts for each facility. The members of the <b>TCB</b> seemed like the good target (see who’s who)."
#WP6
- "<p>The ExPaNDS <b>second video</b> is now ready for a final review by the PEB before today EOB. It will then be delivered in the following days. Kat said there would also be a <b>poster</b> to accompany the video, like last time.</p>
<p>Following Andy’s suggestion, a <b>“related projects” page</b> will be added to the website, with PaNOSC and other relevant projects.</p>
<p>A communication of our partner’s achievements regarding COVID and the fact that ExPaNDS is carrying out with his works could be the subject of a <b>tweet</b>, using the EU template against COVID provided by our PO.</p>"

aob: "<p>Should we try and participate to <a href='https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/ict-2020-leading-digital-age'>ICT 2020</a>? Seems like ExPaNDS/PaNOSC should at least be represented. It’s in Cologne at the beginning of December.</p>"
---
