---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Silvia, Anton, Thibaud, Nazar√©, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<p>Brian introduced Abigail McBirnie who is joining STFC and ExPaNDS as of this week, mainly to work on WP2.</p>
<p>Valentina and Patrick reported Mirjam's suggestions for ExPaNDS/PaNOSC annual meeting speaker: Amadeo Perazzo from Stanford SLAC and Ian Foster from Argonne. Other suggestions are still welcome, send them to Patrick and Sophie please.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Deliverable due M6: <b>Sustainability policy report</b> (PSI): is currently being reviewed and will be uploaded today or tomorrow. Daniel said we would send his comments today.</p>
<p>Sophie gave an overview of the upcoming deliverables until August 2020.</p>
<p>WP1 works will focus on coordination with EOSC related projects now that the first phase with many deliverables is finished. Sophie asked for communication needs that were not yet fulfilled and especially a way to share all the meeting minutes. It raised the problems encountered by several with SharePoint (see WP6).</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The data policy framework due in 08.2020 is the next big step for WP2. The next 'tangible' deadline to track progress on this task is the survey to be sent to all partners on data policy in the coming 3 weeks.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The current main task is on ontology. A survey to understand the search terms of the beam lines scientists at DLS will be sent in the following days, to get real users' input. They will have two weeks to answer and then after the results are analysed, it will be expanded to other facilities. The aim is to prioritize the ontology in the fields of most interest to scientists. A meeting with WP2 is also planned next week to work on the ontology.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The current focus is still trying to identify the reference datasets and integrating the PaNOSC portal.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud faces obvious difficulties trying to organise workshops when nobody is travelling. Two workshops are supposed to be organised by the end of August, with one on FAIR. WP5 is thinking of a plan B, Patrick reminded that no delay should be asked to the PO unless we really have no solution. A date for a telco with WP leaders is currently set up (see e-mail to WP leaders) to progress on this.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle asked Daniel to help WP6 with the technical content of the ExPaNDS info sheet due end of 04.2020, he accepted. Isabelle also announced that the ExPaNDS video would be advertised using lightsources.org weekly newsletter and neutronsources.org. </p>
<p>Given the current circumstances with COVID-19 outbreak in Europe, the dedicated user meeting will most probably turn into a Webinar. Diamond has all the infrastructure to hold such events. A list of topics that could attract the widest audience will be suggested and discussed with WP leaders and TC in the following weeks.</p>
<p>There are still access problems from ALBA and PSI to the SharePoint. WP6 is working on a solution ASAP! </p>"

aob: "<p>Rich ICAT F2F meeting at ESRF. Link to the minutes to be shared by Silvia.</p>"
---
