---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Majid, Nazaré, Thibaud, Isabelle, Andy"
intro: "<p>Patrick and Sophie met our <b>new Project Officer</b>, Pilar Ocon, who made a really good impression on us. Both her and Christian are coming to our annual meeting, Christian agreeing on making a short presentation on EOSC and Horizon Europe. She expressed the need for our project to, while working very collaboratively with PaNOSC, always keep precise track of who is doing what. She encouraged us to have a document <b>mapping the activities of both projects</b> in a very clear manner for our future reviewers. Jordi had already mentioned the idea to Sophie so WP1s will take this action, along with both coordinators. Patrick and Andy will also meet to prepare the <b>coordinator’s session</b> of the annual meeting where this complementarity will be approached.</p> <p>The technical workshop on the portal deployement took place last week and was in our opinion very successful. The next steps and actions for the portal were discussed:<ul>
  <li>Patrick is taking care of making a channel available for developers to remain in contact.</li>
  <li>First we need to make people aware of the developments and steer the overall direction of the portal and then engage real users.</li>
  <li>As a principle, PaNOSC develops, ExPaNDS deploys (see also WP4 update).</li>
</ul>
Abigail wondered about FAIR and WP4, since it was never mentioned in the presentations. Daniel confirmed that FAIR was like security a few years ago, people need to start thinking about it during conception, not afterwards. This will be discussed further, maybe there is something to do on the discoverability of services at least.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie is starting to prepare the <b>WP1² session</b> on management for the annual meeting with Jordi. Valentina is also in contact with Ornella for the joint <b>WP1/WP7 session</b> on sustainability.</p> <p>Some progress was made on the amendment, which already made an iteration with the PO(s). A direct consequence of the extension is that we now have reporting periods longer than 18 months (21). This automatically triggers new reports for finances, we will have to report <b>in December every year of the cumulative expenditure</b>. Sophie will consequently need to request this to our finance people as soon as next month. </p> <p>Finally Sophie reported that our <b>75 min session for the EGI conference</b> had been accepted and that she was going to quickly start steering the preparation because we only have three weeks left.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>WP2 delivered its two <b>FAIR workshops</b> on 1st and 2nd October. Roughly 100 people attended both sessions, representing a good spread of roles across instrument scientist, computing staff, other facility staff, and senior management.<br>
The presentations raised some interesting questions from the audience. We await feedback from the post-workshop survey, and the workshop recordings will go up on the ExPaNDS website in the coming weeks, as will responses to the questions we could not answer live. Abigail thanked again Kat, Emily, WP6, and all of the presenters! </p>
<p>Work also continues on <b>FAIR data management</b> (D2.2). The structure of the deliverable is now well-developed and WP2 aims to have the content mostly complete by end of October in preparation for internal review. </p>
<p>Abigail also reported we are considering how best to proceed with the <b>glossary</b> work started over the summer. Related to it, Abigail sent feedback on the EOSC glossary with the result that several suggested changes have been accepted and will be incorporated into the next release of the document. </p>"
#WP3
- "<p>WP3’s upcoming deliverable is being finalised by the different WP3 contributors with the objective of submitting it to internal review by Monday next week.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Following the technical workshop and the last WP4 meeting, Patrick reported that it was decided to have a continuous integration / continuous deployment (<b>CI/CD</b>) <b>testing platform</b> for the portal hosted by DESY and MaxIV, in order to provide two different testing environments to all partners, avoiding local bias.<br>
DESY is also working to make the <b>ExPaNDS reference datasets available</b> in a dCache instance.</p>
<p>Anton confirmed he would be present at the annual meeting now that it was virtual and will discuss with Andy and Patrick the preparation for the <b>WP4² session</b>.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Nazaré and Thibaud presented the last developments on the <b>training strategy</b> for both projects (see appendix). There will be three components to the online training:<ul>
  <li>the <b>e-learning platform</b> that will enable the creation of new content and the use of, e.g. Jupyter Notebooks,</li>
  <li>a <b>training library</b>, referencing all external training content of interest for the PaN community, following Elixir’s training platform model,</li>
  <li>an <b>event library</b>, referencing all training events of interest to the PaN community.</li>
  </ul>
In terms of architecture it would be less centralised hence more sustainable and it also will add visibility to existing material. This will enable to gather interesting and targeted information for our PaN community.</p>
<p>The next steps for this task will be to identify:
  <ul>
    <li>the training needs for each WP,</li>
    <li>the existing material at our facilities that could be retrieved,</li>
    <li>the planned material to be produced for ExPaNDS.</li>
  </ul></p>
  <p>Nazaré and Thibaud are also working on the <b>WP5/WP8 common presentation</b> with PaNOSC at the annual meeting where this strategy and the responsibilities of each project will be highlighted. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>WP6 helped a lot with the dissemination and facilitation of the <b>WP2 and technical workshops</b>, all confirmed they were really happy.</p>
<p>Isabelle also reported the recent work on the justification for the <b>‘reference from community websites’ milestone</b> and agreed to send it asap to Sophie for an upload to the EU portal this week.</p>
<p>Isabelle is also meeting Nicoletta to prepare the <b>WP6/WP9 annual meeting session</b>. She finally reminded WP6 had two important deliverables upcoming: the roadmap and the user meeting.</p>"

aob: "<p>Hans is leaving XFEL and PaNOSC.</p>
<h1>Appendix</h1>
<img src='./assets/images/ExPaNDS-WP5-20201013v2-1.png' alt='WP5: Recent activities and next steps' style='width:100%'>
<img src='./assets/images/ExPaNDS-WP5-20201013v2-2.png' alt='WP5: Recent activities' style='width:100%'>
<img src='./assets/images/ExPaNDS-WP5-20201013v2-3.png' alt='WP5: Next steps' style='width:100%'>"
---
