---
intro: "<h2>PaNOSC and ExPaNDS collaboration</h2><p>The participation to PaNOSC WP regular meetings and vice-versa is in place or is improving. The WP leads will make
sure someone is there to represent ExPaNDS for all future meetings.</p><p>The joint annual meeting with PaNOSC was agreed. The proposal from ELI to host it in Prague was discussed. The only
problem for ExPaNDS is financial. Since there is no ExPaNDS partner in Czech Republic, it would mean a potentially
important loss of VAT. We need to ask PaNOSC if it would still be possible to change the location. If that is the case, it
was suggested that either the UK or Sweden could see if they could host (last year was in Italy and the KO meeting for
ExPaNDS was in Germany).</p><p>Concerning the dates, there is no foreseen constraint in the 2 periods suggested by PaNOSC (19.10. - 1.11 or 9.11. -
13.11), only a wish to have it as close to the 19.10 as possible considering our anniversary is in September. The LEAPS
plenary will hold at the end of Nov. and so will - probably - the EOSC symposium.</p><p>Finally concerning the format, it still needs to be discussed but the following was drawn-up:</p><ul>
  <li>1st day of joint plenary meeting,</li>
  <li>2nd day of separate plenary meeting,</li>
<li>3rd and 4th day of technical exchanges among WP, joint and/or separate depending on the wishes of each WP
leaders.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Feedback on Sharepoint</h2>
<p>It was agreed to have a 2-weeks try-out of the SharePoint collaboration space in ‘real conditions’. Every file from the
landing page will be copied and only SharePoint is to be used until next PEB. Everyone on the who’s who file will be
notified and added as a participant.</p>
<h2>EOSC 5b projects Task Forces</h2>
<p>Majid is to be added to the ‘service onboarding’ TF and Thibaud to the ‘training’ one. The TF compositions will also be
updated to replace Knut with Patrick (and/or Sophie). The first meeting of all the 5b projects collaboration task forces
will take place before the 2nd week of February.</p>
<h2>Meetings & events</h2>
<p>2020/01/10 ESFRI task force on EOSC:
The proposal to find a use-case to be presented during the next ESFRI and EOSC meeting in May will be detailed and
submitted to the PEB via email for propositions.</p>
<p>2020/01/29-31 XFEL & DESY user meeting</p>
<p>2020/02/06 CB</p><p>Additionally, Brian mentioned an upcoming FAIRsFAIR plenary. It should be organised by the end of April and the
agenda is currently being set. ExPaNDS (Brian) will likely be participating.</p>
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- "<p>There will be a meeting next week to review the tasks and objectives of all WP3 participants. A F2F meeting with
PaNOSC is also planned for February.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The telephone conference planned on the 22.01 will clarify the work for the coming weeks. A new recruit should
also join WP4 soon for DESY.</p>"
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle will be meeting Andy and J-F. Perrin from PaNOSC on the 26th of February to discuss the vision for
ExpaNDS. 2 user meetings are being ‘investigated’ for an ExpaNDS participation: at LUND and at the IUCr. WP6 (Kat) will
participate to DESY & XFEL user meeting along with Anton and Sophie, postcards are being drafted to be distributed
then. An infographics video is also currently being made (it is due by the end of February). Finally WP6 encourages all
partners to print and display an ExPaNDS poster in each of our facilities and present it. The poster in on SharePoint.</p>"

aob: "<p>Brian informed his leaving FAIRsFAIR to focus on his other projects, someone else from UKRI will replace him.</p>"
---
