---
attendees: "Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Silvia, Majid, Thibaud, Kat"
intro: "<p>The extension request is following its process, the paper we all agreed on is being reviewed by the PO with a foreseen answer by the end of September. For now the reference for deadlines of <a href='/milestones.html'>milestones</a> and <a href='/deliverables.html'>deliverables</a> remain unchanged. </p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>A common response to the <b>SRIA</b> is being written with PaNOSC with the aim to publish it this week. Sophie will keep the PEB informed on any additional point compared to our already submitted response. The idea is to stress the key points so they are not missed in the wrap-up the EOSC secretariat is preparing. They received ~260 responses.</p> <p>Sophie is working on the <b>financial situation</b> of the project post-extension, to monitor the updated ramp-up. She will contact facilities separately with an overview of the current expenses and projections per partner.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The <b>data policy framework</b> is being finalised by Brian, taking in the last comments made by internal reviewers. The final version is to be uploaded and made public by the end of this week. Now the focus for the next two months will be on FAIR data management (D2.2), for which the general features and purpose are agreed upon.</p> <p>Concerning the upcoming workshop on FAIR, Daniel and Abigail are to meet separately to prepare their talks.</p> <p>For task 2.2, Heike is trying to participate to PaNOSC meetings on <b>DMPs</b> but it is hard to keep up, having in parallel the ExPaNDS meetings, where PaNOSC is not attending. Brian will talk with Andy to better <b>coordinate the common works</b> within the two WP2s.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>WP3 is progressing on the D3.1 deliverable, Sylvia reported that the December landscape was sent to facilities for update, with a deadline by Friday. The <b>gap analysis and roadmap</b> will then be finalised and sent for facility review before the end of the month.</p><p>In parallel, task 3.2 carries on with the shared meetings with PaNOSC on experimental techniques, the <b>work-in-progress ontology</b> will be uploaded to <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/WP3-ontology'>GitHub WP3</a>.</p> <p>The new starter at PSI will be taking up the implementation task (task 3.3) when he arrives mid Oct.</p> <p>Tobias presented metadata at ExPaNDS and PaNOSC during the <b>Workshop on Metadata catalogues</b> integration for Interdisciplinary Research of FAIRsFAIR (11th of Sept) with the clusters (PaNOSC, EOSC-Life, ENVRIFAIR, SSHOC and ESCAPE). B2FIND was also presented and all material can be found <a href='https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1md-lMPP2_sJLGTQE1TbGjjOhelYOomId'>here</a>.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Majid reported last meeting discussions were about the current <b>portal tests</b>, and they introduced the topic of <b>AAI</b> for external users. EGI will try and come up with a proposal for next meeting.</p> <p>The new recruit at MAX IV due to start in ~Nov will be responsible for the testing framework.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud had a very fruitful meeting with <b>LEAPS</b> last week who were really interested by the training platform that they are willing to take over after the projects end, making it sustainable. LEAPS facilities also have scientific material that they could provide already. <b>LENS</b> will be contacted by PaNOSC to be integrated in this.</p> <p>Thibaud is also coordinating with Cecilia Blasetti for users outreach and is now in the WP5 and WP6 mailing lists of LEAPS.</p> <p>Together with PaNOSC, Thibaud will meet with the <a href='https://tess.elixir-europe.org/'><b>Elixir platform</b></a> on the 21st, and had an internal meeting this morning to prepare it.</p> <p>Finally, monthly meetings will now be set between WP5 and WP2-3-4 to talk about <b>training material</b> and define the <b>requirements for the platform</b>. Thibaud asked whether WP leaders would rather have separate WP meetings or only common ones. WP2 was in favour of common meetings. WP3 and 4 are to confirm. Kat offered help with the templates for training material, Thibaud is to send his requirements. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat disseminated on the <b>upcoming WP2 workshop</b>:
<ul>
  <li>to all ExPaNDS and PaNOSC contributors (mailing lists)</li>
  <li>to <b>LEAPS</b> mailing list</li>
  <li>via social media</li>
  <li>it will appear in this week’s newsletter of <b>lightsources.org</b></li>
  <li>the <b>heads of communication at EU PaN facilities</b> will be contacted this afternoon for dissemination in each facility</li>
  <li>and finally she is waiting for feedback from <b>LENS</b>.</li>
</ul>
There are already ~30 registrants to both days.</p> <p>Kat also shared the update on the <b>Technical workshop</b> which, as Daniel sent, will now be spread over 2 afternoons (8th and 9th of Oct) and will integrate a 2h session on <b>Calipsoplus</b>, to share the experience on this closely related finishing project. There are 56 registrants to this event now.</p> <p>Kat also mentioned the <b>SOLARIS user meeting</b> she attended with Sophie last week, we had a poster session where 13 people apparently attended but we saw only one... There were 13 views on the video and  the poster so that’s already something.</p><p>An updated version of the <a href='https://expands.eu'>expands.eu</a> website with a related projects page featuring PaNOSC, LEAPS, etc is coming up soon!</p><p>Finally, Kat will also pick up the weekly WP catch-ups.</p>"

aob: "<p>WP2 reported they had not been properly consulted for the <b>DOI video</b> and letter to be addressed to scientific journals in the name of ExPaNDS, PaNOSC, LEAPS and LENS. They had some concerns on the content that they would have liked to be able to share before the dissemination. Sophie confirmed the approval only came from each facility (e.g. Sara Fletcher for UKRI) so we took it for granted that is was agreed by ExPaNDS. We’ll be more careful in the future.</p> <p>Writing the first WP2 deliverable, Abigail had feedback on the <b>document templates</b> available in SharePoint which she will send to Kat. As suggested by Andrei and for more interoperability, Sophie will also put .odt versions of the different templates.</p> <p>Concerning the point raised by Andrei on the <b>proprietary fonts</b> on our ExPaNDS logo, Kat is reviewing it with legal but apparently there is no problem since we are not sharing the actual font files in the CC licenced documents we produce.</p> <p>Sylvie received feedback from colleagues of a <b>need for more cross-WP exchanges</b> to understand what is happening in the other WPs without necessarily needing to attend their own meetings. Daniel reminded the upcoming technical workshop was focused on the portal test experience, so more WP4-centric. Brian mentioned the annual meeting’s internal sessions (10th and 11th) seemed appropriate. Sophie confirmed the aim of these sessions was that everyone could see what everyone else is doing and possibly draw together an overall roadmap. But this certainly needs some preparation from each WP and maybe cross-WP beforehand so the agenda of these days will need to be refined with more precise proposals for WP leaders.</p> <p>Brian mentioned the <a href='https://conference.codata.org/FAIRconvergence2020/'>International FAIR convergence symposium 2020</a> organised by <b>CODATA and GOFAIR</b> at the end of November. WP2 will try and present a paper for a session (deadline 30th of September).</p> <p>Sophie reported the <b>EOSC symposium</b> of mid-Oct would not be open for external talks, only the EOSC EB working groups will be presenting.</p>"
---
