---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Alun, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>PaNOSC and ExPaNDS joint annual meeting</h2><p>The PaNOSC/ExPaNDS meeting will take place in Prague, <i>a priori</i>​ during the 19.10 week. Since it follows the Jupyter
Notebooks meeting organised by Hans (CFEL), it would be better not to have it start on Monday. A capacity of 100
people was foreseen by PaNOSC and initially agreed by WP1 but the PEB would be more confident with 120-150.
A phone meeting is to be quickly booked with ELI+WP6+WP1+PaNOSC to progress on the subject (room capacities, task
distribution...).</p>
<h2>Deliverables</h2>
<p><b>Project Quality Assurance Plan (PSI)</b> to be delivered in the next few days. Kind reminder to update the
responsible partners for each deliverable ​in the shared table​.</p>
<p><b>Project Data Management Plan (DESY)</b> delayed to February to have the time to get everybody’s consent (incl. PaNOSC)
on the main points (that is: we’ll get DOIs from Zenodo, populate PaN software catalogue, use CC licences for
deliverables). Kind reminder to review ​the (short) document​.</p>
<p><b>General Architecture in relation to the EOSC services (EGI)​</b>: important document that must quickly be
discussed between Diego and the technical WPs. It was agreed that the subject would be added to the WP4
F2F meeting agenda on 07.02.2020 and that a telco with Diego, Anton and Alun should quickly follow. No delay
for this deliverable will be accepted by the PO since it’s a structuring deliverable.</p>
<p><b>Sustainability policy report (PSI)</b>: PO informed of a slight possible delay</p>
<p><b>Engage science communicators based at PAN RIs (Diamond)</b>: in the form of a database</p>
<p><b>Infographic of metrics and KPI linked to WP2, 3 and 4 (Diamond)</b>: well advanced, ready for review in the
following days</p>
<p><b>ExPaNDS presentation for conferences (Diamond)</b>: already available on SharePoint, although not targeted to a
specific conference</p>
<p><b>POPD - Requirement No. 1 (DESY)</b></p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Shared table for ​ExPaNDS/PaNOSC collaboration​ and monthly WP1 meeting in place. Start of all INFRA-EOSC 5B task
forces following the enforcement of the Collaboration Agreement.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Daniel is checking with Brian before officially stating we want a common PaNOSC/ExPaNDS data policy framework. If so,
he will make sure we have a more active role in the creation of the data policy framework with PaNOSC and the
ExPaNDS facilities are involved since it’s an important document. Review meeting on the living document every 2
weeks.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Reminder of the F2F joint meeting in Lund on 11-12 February.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Reminder of the WP4 F2F meeting in Hamburg.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>The e-learning platform shall be renamed and made available by PaNOSC by the end of February. A F2F meeting is being
organised to clarify how we can populate the platform. A wider call for participation will be made (​doodle still open​)
since it can potentially be of interest to other WPs as well.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Reminder to present ExPaNDS in our respective facilities. The Diamond presentation by Mark had 50 attendees!
Recent work is focused on getting slots for ExPaNDS in future user meetings and working on M6 deliverables.</p>"

aob: ""
---
