---
attendees: "Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Anton, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<h2>PaNOSC meeting in Copenhagen</h2>
<p>The PaNOSC meeting in Copenhagen took place on the 29th and 30th of November. Among the topics discussed, Sophie mentioned the interest of PaNOSC facilities in the upcoming FAIR assessment work of WP2. PaNOSC facilities are looking at having their catalogues certified by <b>CoreTrustSeal</b>, which Brian is considering as well, using <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5346822'>FAIRsFAIR’s work on combining FAIR and CoreTrustSeal</a> in the frame of the FAIR assessment, as it is wider than F-UJI, focusing on the process rather than only on the data. </p>
<p>The VISA and PaN search API <b>sustainability</b> and governance are going to be important topics for next year. A follow-up project for FAIR for PaN in Horizon Europe was not really discussed as the LEAPS chairs have volunteered to work on it during the last general assembly.</p>
<p>An issue was raised on the <b>workflow feature</b> that is overlapping between pan-training and pan-learning platforms, which will need to be addressed in the frame of WP5. An issue in GitHub will be added.</p>
<p>Another common issue we should address between both projects is the experience of <b>onboarding services</b> to EOSC, that several facilities are facing individually for now. WP1 will follow-up.</p>
<p>About <b>AAI</b>, the Umbrella IdP will soon disappear for the institutions IdP. The Umbrella organisation will from now manage the authorisation groups and the EduGAIN proxy, which is compatible to EOSC AAI. A new Umbrella chair is soon to be elected, for now Jean-François is our contact point.</p>
<p>Finally, the plan is still to have an all-hands meeting for both projects in April/May, that will be hybrid. The last annual meeting will then happen again in Oct/Nov 2022.</p>
<h2>Workshop on FAIR metadata</h2>
<p>WP2 with the help of WP6 is organising a metadata workshop on the <b>2nd of March 2022 from 10:00 to 13:00 CET</b> about the final recommendations for FAIR Photon and Neutron data management. The goal is to set the scene and synthesise the work on metadata, also in relationship with WP3 (search API and OAI-PMH) and WP4 (provenance). As the feedback from both WPs and partner facilities is very important for this task, WP2 will ask for people to be nominated in each WP and from each facility in an upcoming e-mail. Questions will also be sent in advance to prepare the workshop. </p>
<p>The same principle will be applied for the FAIR assessment task so Brian would like to present both strategies at the upcoming <b>extended PEB</b> to be planned in January. Sophie will add it to the agenda.</p>
<h2>Risk analysis update</h2>
<p>Following the update of the risk analysis by WP1, Sophie asked the WP leaders to check their respective risks and provide feedback:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Anton suggested adding a risk for possible loopholes between WP3 and WP4 for the technical coordinator.</li>
  <li>Abigail suggested resolving the risk on DMPs not being able to cope with the diversity of instruments because the approach taken in the recently published deliverable covers this.</li>
  <li>Ana asked to revise the text on the mitigation actions for the risk of the input training material being late: it’s not regular meetings but rather individual SCRUM-like brainstorming sessions that are planned. </li>
  <li>Paul noted that the risk on personnel is still relevant, as he saw during the catalogue gap analysis workshop this morning. With the upcoming interim report we will have an updated view of the resources available and check what can be achieved during the last year. Needed refocus, redistribution or subcontracting are options that will be studied.</li>
</ul>
<p>The <a href='https://tinyurl.com/ExPaNDS-risks'>register</a> will be updated accordingly.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie mentioned she plans to have the extended PEB on the 18th of Jan. Invitations and agenda will be shared before the holidays. Please note there will be no PEB on the 4th of Jan.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5636096'><b>DMP</b> deliverable</a> is now delivered and published. The DMP implementation is still to be defined in the remaining year adding also more context on how each piece of information will be used further along the RDM process. Brian underlined that the DMP will not sit on a shelf but will be used at several stages, which should be highlighted and explained.</p>
<p>Uwe also noted that users often come for a series of experiments, so a first DMP can be used afterwards as a basis for following proposals. This can also be highlighted / exploited to pre-fill the DMP template.<br>At HZDR for example, only ~50% of users are first-comers. It would be interesting to know if this statistic is similar at other facilities.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>The catalogue gap assessment workshop preparation highlighted common areas of concern that WP3 can now focus on in the frame of tasks 3.4 and 3.5. The actual workshop happened this morning with all facilities represented.</p>
<p>Alun also mentioned the upcoming PaN search API <b>scoring</b> workshop to take place on Wed, 15th next week.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>Abigail reminded WP5 that having a closed area per facility in the training platform was a selling point from ISIS point of view. This has not been considered for now in the development of the platform as it first focuses on openness. However, with Umbrella and its group management it could be in theory possible. It was noted that if the metadata was public, restricted access content could still be published in the platform, linking to a restricted access area.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat reported that Sophie has a 3 min “poster slam” at the <a href='https://www.helmholtz-berlin.de/user/contact---events/user-meeting/index_en.html'><b>BESSY@HZB user meeting</b></a> this Thursday on FAIR and open data for national photon and neutron facilities in Europe.</p>
<p>An abstract was prepared with PaNOSC and submitted for <b>ESOF 2022</b> on the benefits of open science in health. The application can be found in SharePoint.</p>
<p>Kat is also finalising the <b>librarian symposium report</b> taking Brian and Abigail’s feedback into account, with follow-up questions and a finalisation planned before Christmas.</p>"

aob: ""
---
