---
intro: "<p>Patrick received feedback from PaNOSC WP6 on the common <b>PaN ESCAPE workshop on data management</b>. They said it was an interesting meeting which provided useful information but that it would need too much effort to adopt the ESCAPE data lake as a solution for PaN data management. Jean-François will write a summary to explain this decision and give perspectives.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported that our PO asked for a <b>dedicated review meeting to assess the collaboration between the 5b projects</b>. It will happen as a separate event soon after/before our own review meeting. The <a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/'>EOSC secretariat project</a>, which used to be our gateway to the EOSC WGs and is now the one to the EOSC association, will end in June 2021. After that, the stakeholder’s forum of the EOSC Association should take over this role but there will probably be a “moment of hesitation” between the two where we will need to organise ourselves for the task forces (FAIR, training and comms in particular).</p>
<p><b>Reviewing the project DMP</b> with Jordi, Sophie asked if we should change the clause saying we will put every deliverable in Zenodo. We could instead choose to use Zenodo only for those deliverables that should be findable after ExPaNDS ends. It was decided that we should keep it as it is, it is not up to us to decide what is interesting or not to the wider community. Sophie will upload all missing public deliverables to Zenodo.</p>
<p>Preparing for the review, Sophie suggested we offer <b>access to the Sharepoint to our reviewer</b>. A dedicated meeting will be planned with Kat, Patrick and Alun (Diamond’s SharePoint expert) to see how we can make the most important documents accessible in one-click from the homepage.
</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian reported the task on PIDs was kicked-off with presentations from a colleague involved in the FREYA project and one from Rolf. The next steps will be two-fold: meetings among experts to work on the <b>PID infrastructure</b> for ExPaNDS and meetings for a larger audience to share best practices at our facilities. A meeting is scheduled for next week with several facilities (including HZB, PSI, ISIS and ESRF) presenting their PID policy and implementation. </p>
<p>WP2 needs to follow-up on the <b>facilities data policy consultation</b>. Abigail and Brian are currently in touch with ISIS on the subject. The possibility to apply to the <a href='https://www.fairsfair.eu/news/fairsfair-announces-open-call-policy-enhancement-support'>FAIRsFAIR call for policy enhancement support</a> was relayed to partners and will be further discussed.</p>
<p>Abigail informed us she would be presenting our metadata framework to the other 5b projects at the FAIR task force meeting next Tuesday.</p>
<p>On the uptake of FAIR, the <b>event for librarians</b> is being prepared, Abigail currently investigating who is managing the data and how in the different partner facilities. Brian also mentioned he was still planning to have a PaNSIG session during the <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries/rda-17th-plenary-meeting-edinburgh-hybrid'>upcoming RDA event in Edinburgh</a>.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Sylvie asked for clarifications on what was precisely expected in ExPaNDS DoW (description of work) for the implementation deliverable called “Release V1.0 ExPaNDS ontology available as an EOSC online service”. A dedicated meeting will be held to clarify this with Patrick and Sophie.</p>
<p>Sylvie reported having successfully uploaded a <b>draft ExPaNDS ontology</b> in <a href='https://bioportal.bioontology.org/'>Bioportal</a>. The PIDs to be used are still to be discussed. WP3 is working with <a href='https://www.nexusformat.org/NIAC.html'>NIAC</a> to try and integrate in the NeXus terms the PaN ontology for the 1st classes. A demonstrator will be presented in the course of the next NIAC meetings.
</p>
<p>Followed a discussion on the importance of having users check the usability of the ontologies in the long term. In particular, the structure of the ontology needs to easily accommodate changes for it to be sustainable.</p>"
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud confirmed his open position at SOLEIL would work on implementing the Tess-like <b>aggregator of training material</b>, in the team of Emmanuel Fahri. The ontology developed in WP3 will be used for the platform, to add metadata to the linked training content.</p>
<p>Abigail and Thibaud met to discuss in more depth possible content and expectations for WP2 and STFC on training. The aggregator of content will be specifically interesting for FAIR-related content and Abigail mentioned the sub-site of the training platform for STFC could even be adopted for a wider use.<br>The more general survey on training material aimed at all partners is being finalised with Kat. </p>
<p>Thibaud also encouraged each facility to participate in the <b>Train-the-trainers workshop</b> organised by PaNOSC (<a href='https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=YWJnY3R2N3E5dnBvY2VhZzRnNnNndmprcjBAZ3JvdXAuY2FsZW5kYXIuZ29vZ2xlLmNvbQ'>9-11 of February</a>).</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>In the previous weeks, Kat added new pages to the <b>expands.eu</b> website: <a href='https://expands.eu/related-projects/'>related projects</a>, <a href='https://expands.eu/deliverables/'>deliverables</a>, a resources section with <a href='https://expands.eu/infographics/'>infographics</a>, <a href='https://expands.eu/videos/'>videos</a> and <a href='https://expands.eu/presentations/'>recorded presentations</a>. She encouraged everyone to provide feedback.</p>
<p>As part of the development of the new <b>strategy for the user meeting deliverable “package”</b>, Kat reported an EOSC-life meeting with Susan Daenke, progress on the preparation of the librarian meeting (see WP2) and the upcoming meeting with facilities communication teams. The latter has, among others, the goal to identify high-profile scientists in each facility for possible interviews on their requirements and use cases for ExPaNDS.</p>
<p>Finally Kat was happy to report a good attendance to the <b>PaN ESCAPE data lake workshop</b> and a very good feedback in the first answers to the post event survey.</p>"

aob: "<p>Andy reported there were already <b>7 use cases published in <a href='https://www.panosc.eu/use-cases/'>panosc.eu</a></b> and reminded of the possibility for everyone to upload their own use cases. PaNOSC is aiming to have 10 use cases per facility.</p>"
---
