---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "
<h2>Organisation for the EC review on the 8th of June</h2>
<p>The reviewers (not known yet) and our PO are expecting the slides to be made available to them ahead of the review, on the 2nd of June. Patrick asked every WP to <b>upload to <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/30039/'>this indico page</a> a finalised version of the presentations for the 21st of May</b>, to leave time to check internally the overall consistency. Final slides will be uploaded to a dedicated folder that was already shared with our PO (the link is in Indico).</p>
<p>On the day of the review, Patrick reminded all WP leaders to make sure they were available from 9am to 4pm CEST, in case of questions during other presentations. The “demo team” can attend the afternoon talks only. The final and agreed agenda is the one from Indico.</p>
<h2>Application to the EOSC symposium</h2>
<p>We discussed five possible applications for the upcoming EOSC symposium (<a href='https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/call-contributions-application-form'>deadline for application on the 20th of May</a>):</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Panel on OS policies</b> with INFRA-EOSC-5 task force (Brian) - Sophie will forward the ongoing discussion to Brian confirming we are happy to participate</li>
  <li><b>User engagement</b> for a lightning talk (Isabelle)</li>
  <li><b>PaN ontologies</b> for a 15-min presentation (Steve?) - Sylvie will ask Steve</li>
  <li><b>PaNOSC use cases</b> (Andy)</li>
  <li><b>AAI</b> (Andy) - these last two are preliminary ideas that still need to be discussed within PaNOSC</li>
</ul>
<h2>Upcoming deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p>The aim and status of the several upcoming deliverables and milestones for the next months were discussed. See status quo per WP.</p>
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- "<p><b>D2.3 - Final data policy framework for Photon and Neutron RIs (PSI) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
Brian and Abigail discussed and scoped the data policy framework update. WP2 is preparing to have it ready for internal review by the end of July.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p><b>D3.2 - Release V1.0 ExPaNDS ontology available as an EOSC online service (PSI)	- 31 May 2021</b><br>
This deliverable is being finalised.</p>
<p><b>MS12  - Metadata catalogue release (PSI) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
Alun plans to set up a container with the data catalogue and the search API installed to demonstrate the use of the search feature on our data. This demonstrator should be useful in the overall roadmap.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p><b>D4.3 - Testing and Validation framework (MaxIV) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>The testing framework is progressing well for the <a href='https://gitlab.com/MAXIV-SCISW/JUPYTERHUB/jupyter-notebook-validation/'>Jupyter-based use cases</a>. Following Zdenek’s presentation at the end of April, Andy mentioned it was being tested at ESRF. Anton reported the WP had to progress on the framework for remote desktop applications now.</p><p>On the topic of remote desktops, and as already mentioned by PaNOSC, the PaN portal will only support launching VMs in OpenStack. In ExPaNDS we don’t have the resources to deploy a production OpenStack service at the facilities that don’t have it already. Besides the possibility to interface the PaN portal to our local analysis services ourselves, e.g. to Kubernetes - which was estimated by ILL to take in the order of 55 weeks of work - ExPaNDS has the possibility to integrate local services directly into the EOSC (e.g. EOSC marketplace).</p>"
#WP5
- "<p><b>MS16 - First (pilot) national training event organised and performed (SOLEIL) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
Thibaud will start preparing the wording for this milestone which we consider achieved given the 2 online workshops that already took place within the frame of WP5.</p>
<p><b>D5.2 - Annual report on training activities, workshops held, materials published and investigations performed (SOLEIL) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
No specific comment, this deliverable is straightforward.</p>
<p>A preliminary report for the e-learning platform evaluation (the deliverable due in Sept. 2021) is in preparation and the plan is still to have something ready for the review.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p><b>D6.11 - ExPaNDS presentation for conferences (Diamond) - 30 Jun 2021</b><br>This is the usual update of the ExPaNDS slide-deck.</p>
<p><b>D6.5 - ExPaNDS representation material for relevant large international conferences (Diamond) - 31 Aug 2021<br>
MS22 - AAAS & ESOF attendance (Diamond) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
These were significantly pushed back because of COVID-19 when we prepared the amendment and are already upcoming. WP6 has them on their radar and the different possibilities will be discussed in a parallel WP1-WP6 catch-up.</p>
<p><b>D6.20 - Assistance to the development of the taxonomy strategy for the relevant data catalogues (Diamond) - 31 Aug 2021<br>
MS29 - Taxonomy strategy (Diamond) - 31 Aug 2021</b><br>
Isabelle discussed this deliverable with Brian and will trigger a dedicated meeting, possibly with the techniques ontology people too.</p>
<p>Isabelle also drew our attention to 3 surveys being prepared by WP6 on which she will seek feedback on from the PEB:</p>
<ul>
  <li>the survey on communication and dissemination activities set up with Nicoletta for all ExPaNDS/PaNOSC people (see attached document in e-mail from Kat on 11.05.2021 18:35 CEST)</li>
  <li>a survey for the users</li>
  <li>a survey on <a href='https://fs3.formsite.com/DiamondLightSource/eakgzp5ulq/index.html'>ExPaNDS metrics</a> for our facilities</li>
</ul>"

aob: "<p>Brian drew Alun’s attention to FAIRsFAIR work on data catalogues, in particular on metadata mapping into DCAT. Tobias and Alejandra are involved but we should ensure Carlo and Alun are in the loop too. We should for instance refer to this work in the upcoming deliverables.</p>"
---
