---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Ana, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>Feedback on mid-term review results</h2>
<p>We received the results from the evaluation of ExPaNDS at the mid-term review at the end of June 2021. The report is consistent with the review itself: reviewers were pretty happy with the work done until now but insist we have a lot more to do in the second period.</p>
<p>The recommendations were discussed and although the requests on the KPIs can be a little tricky, there was no objection to the report. We can reply with observations to the report within 30 days in the EU portal, e.g. if we think there was a misunderstanding.</p>
<p>The next steps for the review process are:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Send feedback or observations on the report itself - _a priori_ not needed</li>
  <li>Update the technical report with the recommendations for this period (chapter 1.4) and re-submit it in the EU portal within the next 2-3 weeks</li>
  <li>Take into account the recommendations for the next period in the WPs (chapter 1.5 and rest of document)</li>
</ol>
<p>Sophie will prepare the <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues'>issues</a> for points 2 and 3.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>The <a href='https://www.eosc.eu/form/open-call-membership-task-force'>call for participants to the <b>EOSC-Association task forces</b></a> is now out. Brian mentioned UKRI was now joining the EOSC-A. </p>"
#WP2
- "<p>WP2 currently focuses on writing the update of the <b>data policy framework</b>. On 16.06 the monthly meeting for WP2 took place (<a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1rmcFI_AoXvqsv67XwRwsMz0WzQ8pmMCW_2Jk8AEH0vk/edit?usp=sharing'>see minutes</a>), showing normal progress on all other tasks.</p>
<p>Brian confirmed the save-the-date will soon be sent out for the <b>librarian symposium</b> and informed us he had a new starter at STFC for WP2 (and WP4). Kat will send their details to Sophie for the “welcome package”.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Following the workshop, Alun had a meeting with all <b>task leaders</b> last week. They agreed on the schedule for the second period, on regular progress meetings and on dedicated kick-off meetings for the tasks that are starting now.</p>
<p>Carlo is working on the technical prerequisites to achieve the milestone due in August.</p>
<p>Sylvie reported the PaNET ontology v1.0 was now available in <a href='http://ontoportal.egi.eu/'><b>EGI’s OntoPortal</b></a> (own instance of BioPortal set up by EGI for the occasion) which will now be onboarded to EOSC by Andrea.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Following the onboarding procedure presentation by Andrea and Owen, Anton will now monitor the <b>onboarding of the individual DA services</b> of our partners in EOSC (N.B: it’s a KPI).</p>
<p>Anton is getting the reference use cases to work at as many facilities as possible, starting with <b>CrystFEL</b>, which is done by a new starter at DESY. This will be the first non-Jupyter example of an ExPaNDS cloud DA service.</p>
<p>Anton also mentioned its <b>NFDI project</b> for Germany-wide PaN data management had been granted. It will be an interesting related project for ExPaNDS.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Ana reported the annual report for the 2nd year of ExPaNDS was in progress, as well as the training platform evaluation deliverable.</p>
<p>The new starter (Antoine) is now confirmed to arrive on ExPaNDS on Sept, 1st for WP5.</p>
<p>As requested by the reviewers, Ana is working with the other WP5 members on a more precise <b>plan for training</b>.</p>
<p>The <b>training material</b> for WP3 needs the 1st data catalogue to be ready, it will then be useful as a roadmap for other facilities. The training material for the use of the ontologies needs to be clarified.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>WP6 is carrying on its activities on the use case with WP3, the organisation of the librarian symposium and the work on <b>profiles</b> for the website. The meeting with Brian on the taxonomy is planned for this Friday.</p>
<p>The <b>promotional video</b> is now finalised and will be launched in the next few days. </p>
<p>The update of the <b>ExPaNDS presentation</b> is also finalised, Sophie needs to review it and upload it to the EU portal.</p>
<p>Isabelle noted that the <a href='https://www.sri2021.eu/abstract_submission/'><b>14th SRI</b></a> was reported to the end of March 2022, and that she would look at submitting an abstract with PaNOSC. Alun mentioned the <a href='https://www.nobugsconference.org/'><b>NOBUGS 13</b></a> event which should happen in Autumn was a possibly good opportunity to reach the “RI/Facility’s scientific software and computing staff” stakeholder group.</p>"

aob: "<p>Alun informed us there was a new division at PSI for Scientific Computing, Theory, and Data where he and Carlo are moving. It includes a dedicated group for <b>scientific data management</b>.</p>"
---
