---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Abigail, Silvia, Anton, Ana, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>Mid-term review rehearsal: what now?</h2>
<p>After the useful rehearsal, we all have some homework to do fixing the presentations and Patrick suggested to do it now that the feedback is still fresh. The preparatory meetings will however be cancelled until we know the actual review date.</p>
<p>A <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/30039/'>new event was set up in Indico</a>, taking into account a few changes suggested during the rehearsal. The final agenda still needs to be validated by the PO.</p>
<p>For the report on progress and finances (WP1), Daniel suggested trying to highlight the work carried out ‘behind the scene’ at each facility. It is important for sustainability and also to show the impact ExPaNDS already has. It is also something our previous PO noted to be an advantage we have compared to other INFRA-EOSC-5 projects, the fact that we can make changes at the ‘root’ of where the data and software are generated.</p>
<h2>Report in the EU portal closing this Wednesday (28th)</h2>
<p>Sophie asked for a final review by the PEB of the “technical report” to be submitted to the European Commission before the end of the reporting period, tomorrow (28/04/2021). In addition to the WP report, the common parts like how we fulfilled our objectives (chapter 1.1) and the public summary still need to be endorsed by some WPs (WP4, 5 and 6).</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>WP1 was mainly focused on the reporting recently. Sophie however pointed everyone to the <b><a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Delivering-data-services-to-EOSC'>wiki</a></b> that was written with the help of Carlo and Rolf following the <b>workshop on EOSC</b>. In addition to what was presented during the workshop, it contains some concrete best practices examples for metadata usage.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail reported a successful <b>RDA session on PaN COVID-19 data</b> with good talks, but unfortunately no time for discussion. Andy agreed and mentioned a follow-up workshop was in preparation (Brian, Andy, Frank). Talks will also be made available by the RDA. </p>
<p>On <b>PIDs</b>, the WP continues to develop the scope of this task. Abigail recalled that the write-up from the good practices meeting was available in WP2’s drive. On this topic, Daniel wondered if a dedicated event on the <b>implementation part of PIDs</b> should be organised. The next EOSC PaN symposium or a dedicated Technical Coordination Workshop were mentioned as possible candidates. This suggestion will be followed-up by Sophie.</p>
<p><b>Data policy consultations</b> are now all finished and WP2 is missing only 2 reports (due end of April).</p>
<p>Abigail also contributed to the part describing ExPaNDS in the update of the <b><a href='http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4005612'>SPARC Europe analysis of Open Science Policies in Europe</a></b> that will be published around the end of April. The <b>implementation story of ExPaNDS for FAIRsFAIR</b> is also finished and approved and will be published by FAIRsFAIR in the next few days.</p>
<p>Finally, Abigail mentioned the upcoming <b>FAIRsFAIR’s third synchronisation workshops</b>, organised as a series of sessions between the 29th April and the 10th June 2021. Abigail will be representing ExPaNDS at most of the sessions, Oliver also agreed to attend the session on skills for FAIR. We are still looking for someone to represent ExPaNDS for the session on the “FAIR ecosystem” (WP3?) and sustainability and governance (WP1?).</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Sylvie reported recent work in WP3 was focused on writing the upcoming deliverable on ontologies. The ontology itself is called “<b>PaNET</b>” and will be made public in BioPortal right after the internal review.</p>
<p>A <b><a href='https://indico.eli-laser.eu/event/3/timetable/#20210518'>best practices meeting</a></b> is being organised by ELI between 18-20th of May 2021 to share experience between partners on topics like user portals, data ingestion, logbooks and NeXus at PaN facilities. ExPaNDS has several contributions planned.</p>
<p>Sophie reminded Sylvie there was a milestone due for August 2021 called <b>Metadata catalogue release</b> that we should keep in mind.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton reported he went over the <b>portable container deployment plan</b> during the last meeting and now intends to use the next meeting this Friday (30/04/2021) to finalise the “check-list”. </p>
<p>For the <b>testing framework</b>, Zdenek organised a presentation to show a use case where <a href='https://gitlab.com/MAXIV-SCISW/JUPYTERHUB/jupyter-notebook-validation/'>Jupyter based applications</a> are tested and discuss it with the other partners. The meeting is planned for this Thursday (29/04/2021).</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Ana reported recent works in WP5 focused on the rehearsal preparation and reporting. </p>
<p>Abigail mentioned she had been contacted by <a href='https://www.isis.stfc.ac.uk/Pages/A-new-partnership-between-ISIS-and-f.aspx'>ISIS@Mach</a> who are asking for help in data stewardship training for a young researcher. FAIRsFAIR will be helping for the data stewardship part but Abigail will also see what specific PaN content we can bring them. A meeting is planned in the first half of May and Abigail will keep Ana informed of the developments. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat reported she had already revised the WP6 slides following the rehearsal and worked on the technical report for WP1 and on the KPIs for dissemination.</p>
<p>This Thursday (29/04/2021) there will be the <b>Diamond ExPaNDS user meeting</b>, a two hours online meeting with the user community of Diamond who volunteered to be more directly engaged in the grant. Mark will first present the project, then the 6 use cases will be presented to fuel a Q&A session with the users. This event is part of the user meeting replacement strategy.</p>
<p>The <b>WP profiles</b> are also progressing for the website update. All WP provided a list of people to be included.</p>
<p>WP6 created an ExPaNDS background for Zoom and is working on a new visual of ExPaNDS facilities on the European map for Anton to be used at the review.</p>
<p>For the <b>promotional video</b>, Ben is expecting feedback on the text for the 3 internal footages (Abigail for WP2, Carlo for WP3 and Oliver for training). These will be then filmed in the next two weeks or so. </p>"

aob: "<p>Patrick presented ExPaNDS to <b>DESY directors</b> during a DESY - <a href='http://www.niiefa.spb.su/site/top/company/?lang=en'>NIIEFA Efremov</a> meeting on the 26/04/2021.</p>
<p>Abigail will miss the following PEBs until the 22nd of June.</p>"
---
