---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>Sustainability of PaN(OSC) services</h2>
<p>Following a presentation by Ornela to WP1 of the progress of the <b>sustainability models for PaNOSC</b>, Sophie reported the main conclusions to the PEB. There are 3 possible types of business models:</p>
<ul>
  <li>MoU in the community for maintenance of open source common tool and contribution governance (e.g.: PaN software catalogue);</li>
  <li>use of community tools or commercial services (e.g.: AAI, long-term storage);</li>
  <li>establishment of a dedicated RI for PaN data management with a defined funding model.</li>
</ul>
<p>The main outputs of PaNOSC that are to be sustained are for example: the PaN search API, the updated PaN software catalogue, the central PaN portal and the evolution management of the local replicas, the PaN learning platform, the data transfer services and Umbrella (which already decided option 2, which is to go for EduTeams).</p>
<p>PaNOSC will start presenting these different possibilities to <b>senior management</b> to survey the different possibilities and invites ExPaNDS to start raising awareness on its side too. Alun with his privileged situation between the CB, LEAPS and LENS will see to it.</p>
<h2>Next annual meeting organisational committee</h2>
<p>PSI confirmed they would be happy to host the <b>PaN EOSC symposium of 2021</b>. Sophie will let PaNOSC know and start planning the organisational committee meetings.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>For the technical part of the <b>report to the European Commission</b>, the details of the activities carried out since the beginning of the project have to be broken down per WP and <u>per each contributing partner</u>. The overall progress of the report is monitored in this <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/11'>GitHub issue</a>. A first version for the WP reports is expected by Sophie by the end of the week.</p>
<p>Sophie reported progress on the organisation of the <b>workshop on EOSC</b>. The draft agenda is available <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/29297/'>here</a> and the “save the date” will be sent soon, thanks to Kat’s help.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p><b>Data policy consultation</b> results have been finalised for ISIS and Elettra. Other facilities carry on (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/blob/master/WP2/Data_policy_consultation/Progress.md'>see progress here</a>).</p>
<p>Abigail reported the meetings on the <b>DMP</b> task are now regular. A typical list of questions to be asked when doing a DMP is being settled and examples of different proposals for beamtime are being shared.</p>
<p>The <b>FAIR implementation story of ExPaNDS for FAIRsFAIR</b> Abigail wrote was approved and will be published in FAIRsFAIR website very soon.</p>
<p>Brian mentioned the <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries/rda-17th-plenary-meeting-edinburgh-virtual/sharing-fair-data-covid-research-photon-and'>PaNSIG session</a> at the 17th RDA plenary had now a confirmed timeslot (see link).</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun confirmed PSI’s data catalogue would soon be harvested by <b>B2FIND</b>. They just need to ‘switch it on’, technically everything is ready.</p>
<p>Steve presented the NeXus ontology work last Friday to WP3. It can be found in <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS-nexus-ontology'>GitHub</a>, <a href='https://bioportal.bioontology.org/ontologies/NXO'>BioPortal</a> (restricted, ask Sylvie for access) and <a href='https://webprotege.stanford.edu/#projects/03b93fb1-6691-4217-8692-948ee410bdb0/edit/Classes'>WebProtege</a> (accessible after sign-in). Its publication in open access will need to be approved by the NIAC. The <b>techniques ontology</b> is also available as a demo version on <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS-experimental-techniques-ontology'>GitHub</a>. A presentation to WP3 is planned on the 26th of March.</p>
<p>Sylvie reported that Andrea confirmed <b>BioPortal</b> was happy to be on-boarded to EOSC, which is very good news for us and also a good addition to the EOSC service portfolio.
They are currently working on registering themselves as service providers. It will then be easy to link our PaN ontology as an EOSC “sub-service”.</p>
<p>FInally, the <b>search API</b> deliverable of PaNOSC is now finished, Sylvie contributed specifically to the ontology part.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton is working to integrate the useful comments he received from the reviewers to his <b>framework</b> deliverable and will be delivering it asap.</p>
<p>Following the conversations with Daniel and Alun on the <b>next steps for WP4</b>, the tasks are being broken down into two teams: one for infrastructure and one for data analysis.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Uwe reported that Oliver had installed <b>Tess e-learning platform</b> on a VM at HZDR. The workflows is an interesting feature, for instance to have a DA pipeline including compression steps e.g.. (He reminded us that there was a working group in LEAPS working on data compression.) This will be showcased at the review meeting as part of the task to select appropriate learning platforms. Then the integration into the <b>PaN learning platform</b> with PaNOSC will need to happen.</p>
<p>The second part of the “Train the trainers” workshop is next week.</p>
<p>On <b>ExPaNDS workshops</b> preparation, there are continued discussions with DANS (EOSC-hub) for DMP training material and the workshop on our integration to EOSC by WP1 is progressing well. It is planned for 6-7th of April, see WP1 report.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle is working on a FAIR use case with <b>commercial stakeholders</b>, who would beneficiate from our PaN search API to offer services on top. The use case is being
prepared with WP3 (Carlo) to have it for the review meeting.<br>
Alun confirmed it would be a useful use case to show and Andy compared it with the similar possible <a href='https://battery2030.eu/'>BATTERY2030+</a> collaboration that arose when he presented PaNOSC to their RDM event.</p>
<p>The updated <b>slide deck to present ExPaNDS</b> and its achievements is in progress and will be soon proposed for review.</p>
<p>The draft agenda is now ready for the <b>WP2 joint librarian event</b>. We are now working on the topics.</p>
<p>Finally the video with the <b>stakeholders interviews for the user meeting</b> is progressing, in particular the storyboard and the processing of the DESY material. It will now be extended to other facilities.</p>"

aob: "<p>Fabio is replacing Sandor (XFEL) as WP4 leader of PaNOSC.</p>"
---
