---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Brian, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle"
intro: "
<h2>News from Daniel</h2>
<p>Daniel is leaving ALBA at the end of June 2021. He will make proper announcements to the different WPs but already mentioned Nicolas was to replace him for WP2 and WP4 and Guifré for WP3. For the <b>Technical Coordinator</b> (TC) position, Daniel estimated a required involvement of 3 to 4 hours a week, assuming no prior engagement in the technical WPs. Everyone was invited to suggest possible (and willing) candidates to Patrick and Sophie so we can nominate a new TC in July.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported having re-submitted the mid-term review periodic report to the EC after it was rejected to “stop the clock”. </p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian reported a regular overall progress. The first meeting for the data policy framework update is planned in June. </p>
<p>Brian is also working with <b>FAIRsFAIR</b> on their task to harmonise data catalogues and thinks we could be a good <b>use case</b> for them. He will plan a meeting with Alun next month on the topic.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun and Carlo planned for the 18th of June a <b>half-day workshop for WP3</b>, to discuss the status and settle the work plan for the rest of the project.</p>
<p>The <b>ontology deliverable</b> (D3.2) was finalised and submitted for internal project review last Friday by Sylvie. The techniques ontology (PaNET) will be made public in parallel in the next few days. Brian will try and finalise his review next week, a few days delay is thus to be expected for the delivery to the EC. Sylvie reported Steve managed a submission for the EOSC symposium 2021 on this topic. </p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The message from PaNOSC WP4 saying they had stopped the development of the PaN portal to focus on <b>ILL’s VISA</b> was commented on. We will wait for Andy’s return for a proper statement on what it implies for ExPaNDS. Anton explained that, in any case, it does not help him in the definition of the next action steps at each facility and noted the timing was a bit unfortunate with our imminent review. Patrick thinks we will find a solution for the portal if our services are reachable and helpful so that is where we need to focus our efforts for now. Alun also noted the unavailability of the PaN portal was a foreseen risk at the proposal stage already. </p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud reported ongoing <b>recruitment</b> at SOLEIL for the development of the training content aggregator. A few good candidates applied and interviews are in progress.</p>
<p>Thibaud plans to start organising the <b>next workshops</b> for ExPaNDS for WP3 and WP4, defining topics, sites and timing.</p>
<p>Uwe reported progress from PaNOSC WP8 to integrate content in PaN-learning.org, e.g. for the HERCULES school. He noted again that photon sources lagged behind in terms of content. Anton confirmed people often reported a <b>lack of introductory material at photon sources</b> in general. The usual practice of beamline scientists seems to often be 1-to-1 support to their users on the tools and techniques, during their visit. Thibaud reminded all that this is why we have a content aggregator in development. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle updated us on the <b>user engagement at Diamond</b> with a first successful meeting where half of the 50 ambassadors were present. A second meeting discussing the use cases in more detail is being prepared with the help of Sylvie and Steve. WP6 managed a submission for the EOSC symposium 2021 on this topic.</p>
<p>The <b>librarian symposium</b> prepared with WP2 was rescheduled to the 30th of September. The draft programme is progressing and will be circulated.</p>
<p>Isabelle was grateful for the feedback received by PEB members on the <b>metrics survey</b>, it will now be sent around to facilities. The <b>user questionnaire</b> is also being finalised. Trying it out on the 25 Diamond users ambassadors demonstrated it worked well and that the feedback received could be really valuable. </p>
<p>Isabelle also reported she was seeking a better solution than the online versions of the <b>AAAS and ESOF</b> for outreach, in the frame of the upcoming deliverable on international conferences. </p>
<p>Finally, the <b>promotional video</b> is heading in the right direction and will soon be made available.</p>"

aob: "<p>Next PEB meeting will be on the 22nd of June, the 8th of June being our review. Sophie reminded everyone that next week we already upload the <b>final slides for our reviewers and PO</b> to see in advance. Anton, Isabelle and Patrick are aligning their presentations and a few tweaks are still being made for the remaining WPs.</p>"
---
