---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Ana, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>Welcome to Ana</h2><p>Ana started at Soleil last week, she is replacing Nazaré for ExPaNDS.</p>
<h2>News from our PO</h2><p>Our PO confirmed to Patrick our project is now managed by the <b>REA</b> (European Research Executive Agency), from the 1st of April 2021 onwards. Christian will still be responsible for us in terms of policy, in particular around the collaboration between the INFRA-EOSC-5 projects. For finances and general guidance in relation to the grant management, we will have a new PO.</p><p>Regarding the user meeting replacement, he agreed on the arguments we put forward and stressed we had to include everything in the Technical Report. He also confirmed the modification of the content of the deliverable needed an <b>amendment</b> that we will start right after the end of the reporting period.</p> <p>The progress of the <b>Technical Report</b> was discussed and notably the deviations. We are still underspending significantly, Sophie will share the figures with the PEB as soon as they are ready. In the meantime, she asked for the review by all WP leaders of the <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Qwm0dFVRw87ur0eJF0kynwM89VtNFmWCqcWWDaU6sg/edit#'>active document</a>:</p>
<ul>
  <li>reply to the comments on their part of the description of activities,</li>
  <li>check the explanations suggested in the deviations (see comments also).</li>
</ul>
<h2>Mid-term review rehearsal preparation</h2>
<p>On the review meeting rehearsal, it was agreed that we should keep the meeting internal, with the CB members acting as reviewers. Brian also suggested asking Juan (Bicarregui) if he could join, having the advantages of a) being at STFC, b) not being involved on a daily basis in ExPaNDS and c) being highly involved in EOSC.</p>
<p>On the guidelines for the presentation sent by Patrick and Sophie, Alun suggested adding as a last point the outlook for the rest of the project. Daniel also suggested to stress the importance of the facility-work done “behind the scene”. Alun confirmed it will be a highlight in WP3’s presentation with the evaluation of the progress of each facility in the road towards EOSC. It will also probably be the case for WP2 with the data policy consultation. Patrick confirmed it was really important to show the impact on our facilities of ExPaNDS work because this is a privileged position we have compared to the regional projects for example.</p>
<p>For the demo, there is good progress in the WP4 part but we still need to integrate WP3 (Alun) and WP5 (Uwe).</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- ""

aob: ""
---
