---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Anton L., Majid, Ana, Antoine, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>A new Technical Coordinator</h2>
<p>Patrick announced we had found a new Technical Coordinator to replace Daniel. His name is <b>Paul Millar</b>, he is working at DESY in Sophie and Patrick’s group. He has a PhD in plasma physics and a solid experience in data management for high-energy physics. He’s also much involved in EU projects (e.g. ESCAPE). He’s not from the field of photon science but is very interested and quick to learn. </p>
<p>He will be introduced in the upcoming Collaboration Board meeting next week. Sophie and Kat will add him to mailing lists, SharePoint and other project’s tools.</p>
<h2>Extended PEB #2 for achievements and resources per facility</h2>
<p>With the last year of the project approaching, Sophie suggested we repeat the experience of an “extended PEB” where instead of the WPs, <b>each partner facility</b> would report on their progress and objectives until the end of the project. It would also be timely with the upcoming financial report that is due to start March 1st covering the whole 30 first months of ExPaNDS. No one objected, so Sophie will plan this for January.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>During our mid-term review, we were asked to update the <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3697704'><b>technical architecture</b> for the project</a>. Marta suggested steering a dedicated working group with WP3 and WP4 representatives to do so with EGI, the TC and the PC. Majid volunteered for WP4 and Alun will suggest someone for WP3. Alun asked to make sure PaNOSC was well represented too, to avoid holes in the architecture, be it through EGI, or directly with a participating member from PaNOSC (Jamie as TC?).</p>
<p>Sophie participated last week in the FAIR task force meeting of the INFRA-EOSC-5 projects which was dedicated to <b>sustainability</b>. FAIRsFAIR is ending in February 2022 already so they are very much focusing on it now. They are e.g. doing 1-page documents to explain for each of their key outputs the exact sustainability plan. It looked like a good practice that Sophie will experiment with the <b>PaNET ontology</b> and then submit to Valentina and WP3. Sophie briefly presented our own sustainability plans to the task force which was very positive about the approach. </p>
<p>It was also mentioned that it would be interesting / important to have a <b>sustainable Zenodo community for all PaN projects outputs</b> (past and future). Valentina was considering this for LEAPS already and will come back to the group on this topic.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian reported good feedback on the <b>workshop on PIDs</b> on the 22nd October, that will be used in the future deliverable. </p>
<p>The deliverable on <b>DMPs</b> is finalised and was submitted for internal review last week. Majid, Sophie and Jonathan from PaNOSC agreed to review it; it should then be ready to be published by the end of November as planned. There is still some work to do on DMPs and this task will continue with a final deliverable due in Nov. 2022.</p><p>Brian reminded us that next Monday HZB (HMC) will present how they <b>assessed the <a href='https://expands.eu/2021/10/29/assessing-the-fairness-of-a-prototypical-pan-instrument-at-bessy-ii/'>FAIRness of an instrument at BESSY</a></b>.</p>
<p>Abigail has an <b>interview with FAIRsFAIR</b> tomorrow about our data policy updates, with a bit of a different focus than <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.5040078'>the last story</a>. She will let us know when it is published so Kat can include it in the newsfeed of expands.eu.</p>
<p>As suggested by Sophie, Abigail added an item to address the <b>KPIs</b> during the monthly WP2 meetings from now on.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Tasks 3.4 and 3.5 are now kicked-off and well taken over by MAX IV and HZB. Rolf sent to all facilities the request to review their <b>status towards federated metadata catalogues</b>, using the questions from <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4146819'>the roadmap</a>. A workshop will follow to discuss progress, issues and where WP3 can help.</p>
<p>Alun, Anton L., Patrick and Sophie also had a <b>progress report</b> meeting for WP3 last week, which Sophie will use to provide the achievements and next steps for each task.</p>
<p>Brian added Matthew arrived at STFC to replace Stuart who left WP3.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The testing framework is still pending but has been reviewed internally by Krisztian whose comments will be addressed now along with Patrick’s review.</p>
<p>Majid reported good progress on the <b>analysis service prototype</b> developed by SOLEIL. The Openstack infrastructure is now launched and Eric is working regularly with Jamie on the installation of VISA in addition to Jupyter services. The plan is to use this instance in the future at SOLEIL, integrated as the operational solution offered to users. </p>
<p>All were very happy to welcome Majid again in our PEBs.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Content continues to be added to the training platform (promotional video, STARS workflow, WP3 material, etc.). Ana also suggested adding the recent workshops recordings and material: PID workshop, librarian symposium, PaN EOSC symposium.</p>
<p>On the progress of the <b>platform’s development</b>, Antoine reported that the user analytics are now GDPR-compliant and in place. The PaNET ontology is now integrated to help users fill PaN techniques in the relevant metadata fields. Giuseppe also implemented EGI check-in as a possible access provider. Next step will be to integrate Umbrella (EduTeams), which will be done by HZDR.</p>
<p>Ana will send around the <b>updated training plan</b> to all WPs for possible changes and updates. The 3rd WP5 workshop content and timeline will also be discussed during the next meeting.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle noted we should be careful with the dissemination of our outputs in two many platforms: Zenodo, EU portal, website, training platform, … This can become tricky especially for monitoring purposes. Sophie takes the comment and will follow-up.</p>
<p>Isabelle reported the <b>librarian symposium report</b> would be ready for review this week. 2 use cases are also available and a third is underway. With the amendment accepted, Isabelle launched the 6 1-minute videos, for which the outline will circulate to WP1 and WP2 also this week.</p><p>The response rate on the <b>metrics questionnaire</b> is in the end around only 50% which makes it difficult to use. Isabelle asked the missing facilities (Elettra, PSI, HZB, HZDR, ISIS) to let her know why they can’t provide these statistics, to try and see what can be arranged. Abigail asked whether the data would be made accessible to all partners afterall, which was not yet decided since some facilities would on the contrary prefer if only aggregated figures were shared.</p>
<p>Patrick added we agreed to pay for a 3-pages article on ExPaNDS to be published in the <a href='http://www.euresearcher.com/14/eu-research-live'>journal <b>EU research</b></a>.</p>"

aob: "<p>Valentina confirmed after talking to Alun that it was worth updating the <b>risk registry</b> for ExPaNDS. She will send her suggestions to Sophie and distribute this to WP leaders to prepare for a joint meeting with Jordi to align with his own update process for PaNOSC.</p>
<p>Abigail mentioned FAIRsFAIR published a white paper following the <b>synchronisation task forces</b> they carried out all along their project. It is <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1p07i2viYSk37nitmHPwIqURbgRC97_1fAF5ih9TZbak/edit?usp=sharing'>open for comments</a> until the 14th of November.</p>"
---
