---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Ana, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<p>Patrick thanked the PEB for the good work in preparation for the review. The criticism raised by our reviewers was reasonable and constructive. We will notably need to be more careful with the monitoring in the second period, during which a lot of implementation tasks are expected to happen in a short time. The report itself has not yet been sent by the Commission but we expect it to arrive this week or the next.
</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported briefly on the <b>EOSC symposium 2021</b> and the <a href='https://www.eosc.eu/news/draft-charters-eosc-association-task-forces-published'>EOSC Association’s task forces</a> (which are a follow-up of the EOSC EB working groups). The PaN community is not yet very much represented there so Sophie encouraged everyone to spread the word for the upcoming open calls for participants.</p>
<p>As a possible project to be submitted to the EOSC secretariat, Isabelle suggested developing a <b>PaN aggregation of publication databases</b>. The open source Zenodo would be for example a good platform. Ana also mentioned the French <a href='https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/'>HAL</a> as a good general-purpose database. </p>"
#WP2
- "<p>In the frame of the data policy framework update, Brian and Abigail are analysing the feedback received from all partner facilities following the <b>consultation</b>. This will be the basis for the updated version of the framework due in August.</p>
<p>The FAIR implementation story of ExPaNDS for <b>FAIRsFAIR</b> Abigail had written has now been published. We are their first <a href='https://www.fairsfair.eu/adoption-stories'>“Adoption story”</a>.</p>
<p>Following the meeting with <b>ISIS@MACH</b>, Abigail identified some gaps in training material for data stewardship for PaN. WP2 will try to fill those.</p>
<p>Brian informed us he was currently engaging with ISIS on an end-to-end <b>neutron use case</b> on FAIR data analysis and data catalogues and that he would keep us updated.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun reported that the <b>half-day workshop</b> he organised with Carlo for WP3 allowed for useful exchanges. Facilities like SOLEIL and MAX IV were able to make good progress already. Carlo is now collating the feedback and answers to the questionnaire evaluating the progress of each facility against the roadmap. Alun will follow-up with task leaders on the topics that were raised and plan for future meetings. </p>
<p>The <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4806026'><b>ontology</b></a> deliverable was published and presented by Steve at the EOSC symposium. The ontologies themselves are not yet available in EOSC but Sylvie and EGI are working on it (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>see issue</a>).</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>VISA is now the solution chosen by PaNOSC for the WP4-related functionalities of the <b>PaN portal</b>. For the search API, a parallel development made by ELI is to be used.</p>
<p>To discuss the fact that VISA’s functionalities do not fit all our ExPaNDS services (in particular: authenticated access only and every service needing to be launched via OpenStack), Anton, Patrick and Sophie had a dedicated meeting with Andy, Fabio and Jordi this morning. The result was that PaNOSC might help us fill the gaps by considering to:</p>
<ul>
  <li>integrate the <b>search API in VISA</b> directly too, in addition to the ELI portal</li>
  <li>investigate direct access to <b>Jupyter-hub in VISA</b> (today only possible through OpenStack)</li>
</ul>
<p>This would notably allow us to use VISA also for the pipelines running on Slurm, thanks to the “Jupyter in Slurm” package developed by ESRF. </p>
<p>VISA was already made <a href='https://github.com/panosc-portal'><b>open source</b> in GitHub</a> by ILL. Contribution rules and an agreement on maintenance of the whole service will now be initiated. ILL intends to maintain the PaN VISA repositories up to date with the production <a href='https://github.com/ILLGrenoble'>ILL VISA</a>, which is very good for sustainability.</p>
<p>All this still being developed and discussed, it was agreed that our upcoming testing framework shall be developed independently. Side remark, Andy confirmed that the ESRF was using MAX IV’s testing framework for Jupyter.</p>
<p>Anton reported that since several facilities are looking to <b>onboard their data analysis platform directly in EOSC</b>, Andrea will be presenting the onboarding procedure during the next WP4 meeting on Friday.</p>
<p>In terms of resources for WP4, Ana confirmed SOLEIL found a new person to work with Majid: Eric. Patrick also mentioned the recent interviews at DESY for a WP4 position.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud reported the recruitment for a new person for WP5 was now accepted and only pending the candidate’s signature. He would be starting in July or August.</p>
<p>Thibaud is working on the <b>annual report</b> due in August as a final task before handing over the WP to Ana.</p>
<p>The <a href='https://pan-training.hzdr.de/'><b>PaN training aggregator</b></a> developed by Oliver is now live although not completely finalised (it still needs a manual intervention from Oliver to register because of firewall configuration). People have been adding material there, including from DESY and CERIC-ERIC, the ease of use being highly appreciated. Uwe confirmed the report on the platform evaluation is in progress (due in Sept.).</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle appreciated the session she contributed to at the <b>EOSC symposium</b> 2021, noting for example good contacts formed with EOSC-synergy.</p>
<p>The <a href='https://fs3.formsite.com/DiamondLightSource/eakgzp5ulq/index.html'><b>Metrics</b> questionnaire</a> was sent to facilities yesterday, with an expected reply by the 16th of July.</p>
<p>The use cases with WP3 and the <b>Diamond user community ambassadors</b> will be developed further over the summer.</p>
<p>Kat has been liaising with the heads of comms at our different facilities to have feedback on the <b>promotional video</b> and organise the next meeting with them. Final touches will now be integrated into the video before it is made public. HZDR updated its logo so our <a href='https://dlsltd.sharepoint.com/:f:/s/GRA0046-PRV/Eozth1YBjhxInh8wuRu_NHEBQLwNe5mraGO9qAXbLqcPbQ?e=hL0PwR'>ExPaNDS cloud logo</a> was also updated.</p>"

aob: "<p>The chances of having the <b>annual meeting</b> as face to face were discussed. As a back-up scenario, Isabelle thought of having at least local meetings at each site, to make it a bit better than a regular Zoom-only conference.</p>"
---
