---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Anton, Majid, Ana, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<p>To prepare for the upcoming <b>PaNOSC workshop</b>, Patrick and Sophie collected feedback from WP3 and WP4. In addition, Brian asked to mention future work in WP2 that could be taken up by PaNOSC facilities too (e.g. FAIR assessment).</p>
<p>During the last <b>CB meeting</b>, several facilities representatives could not attend and were represented by PEB members (Diamond, PSI, UKRI). In addition to the PEB members that already officially have the two hats, the CB looked very much like the PEB. Patrick and Sophie raised the concern that it was, in this case, not as useful as it should be and that we were missing an opportunity to involve senior management.</p>
<p>Andy mentioned a new <b>LEAPS general assembly</b> started tomorrow. Gaston added the topic of data strategy in the agenda, picking up on the survey Andy initiated on our projects outcomes, and gathering further commitment from LEAPS facilities. Patrick emphasised that we now needed to be local relays for this strategy to take shape, giving the example of the LEAPS@DESY monthly meetings.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie mentioned the working group in charge of the <b>technical architecture update</b> was now settled, with a first meeting organised by Marta in the planning. Anton noted we should use this opportunity to watch for any missing hook between data catalogue and data analysis.<br>Members of this working group are: Patrick, Paul, Sophie, Marta, Giuseppe, Brian, Carlo and Majid.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Brian confirmed the <b>DMP</b> deliverable’s review was now finalised and that it only needed the final formatting and english-related edits before being published.</p><p>Nicolas is kicking off the second phase of the work on data management.</p><p>Brian also informed the PEB that the presentation from HMC (HZB) on <b>FAIR assessment of instruments</b> was very interesting input for the upcoming work in our own task. Recordings will be made available.</p><p>Finally, Abigail reported that following the update of the training plan with WP5, training material was discussed during the WP2 last monthly meeting. In particular, possible <b>training material on DMPs</b> is envisaged, in addition to the deliverable.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>In terms of <b>resources</b> for WP3, Brian mentioned Alejandra would be more involved again in the WP tasks. Nicolas added that a new person was hired at ALBA as MIS head, Beatriz. She will also be involved in WP3 tasks.</p>
<p>Sophie mentioned WP3 was working on the important upcoming data catalogue release due in February 2022, which will contain a module for the PaN search API including the implementation of PaNET in <b>SciCat and Icat</b>.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Anton reported on the ongoing work to document the jupyter workflows, with the objective to have a <b>how-to manual</b> to easily repeat the procedure of making notebooks portable.</p><p>Work on <b>containerisation</b> of non-jupyter workflows is also ongoing, mainly by Silvan and Michael at DESY. Again, this will also result in a how-to manual for reproducibility. </p><p>Anton also reported that PaNOSC (in particular Jamie) had been very constructive with <b>VISA</b>, which enabled good progress at both DESY and ALBA sites on testing out the analysis platform.</p>
<p>Several of our facilities are registering to the EOSC (already registered are: DESY, STFC, PSI and EGI). Uwe mentioned an issue with the EOSC AAI that HZDR had to solve, involving groups and authorisation for specific attributes to reveal to the EOSC AAI proxy. He will get in touch with Jean-François in PaNOSC for support. Exchange of experience (good and less good) on <b>EOSC onboarding</b> should be encouraged in any case.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Ana reported progress on updating the <b>training plan</b> and asked for a particular attention to the next workshops.</p> <p>During the last WP5 meeting, the definition of the process to transfer the training material to WP5 was discussed, as well as the level of ‘maturity’ it should have. This will depend on the WPs, a first tendency would be that WP2 and WP3 will provide finalised and <b>ready-to-publish content</b>, whereas WP4 will probably provide <b>raw material</b> that WP5 will then rework and format.</p><p>On the practical level, Ana mentioned the possibility to repurpose wp5@expands.eu to share raw content with WP5 on the one side, and encouraged people to directly add ready-to-use material themselves in the platform on the other.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Brian is checking the final version of the <b>librarian symposium report</b> which will then be ready to go. Isabelle also reported the upcoming <b>1-min-videos</b> are progressing well, Kat will circulate a “story-line” to WP leaders in the coming days for input and approval.</p><p>About the <b>use cases</b> in general, Isabelle continues to engage with the user ambassadors, discuss with Anton on a possible use of the reference datasets and see to include as well user representatives at the country level. More on this at next PEB.</p>"

aob: "<p>Abigail noted that facilities annual reports lacked information on data! Isabelle agreed to bring this to the attention of the heads of comms during a next meeting with them.</p>"
---
