---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Thibaud, Uwe, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>Next annual meeting organisational committee</h2>
<p>For the next PaNOSC/ExPaNDS annual meeting, Kat reminded us that last year we had started the organisational committee meeting around this time of the year. Even if the event is likely to be online again, it is quite a lot of work to prepare the agenda, find good speakers and have a smooth event. <br>
Diamond’s webinar Zoom licence will be made available again but we need a <b>hosting facility</b>. Last year, it was ELI (PaNOSC) so this time it would be one of us. All were encouraged to think about it for the next PEB. Possible candidates were ALBA, keeping in mind they already organised the LEAPS plenary on the 20-22 of October and PSI.</p>
<h2>Review meeting preparation</h2>
<p>As an update for the review meeting preparation we followed the actions listed in the dedicated <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/3'>issue</a>. See comments there.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie reported some progress on the organisation of the <b>workshop on EOSC</b> with Giuseppe (EGI). The goal is to define what an ExPaNDS EOSC service is. Contributions from our colleagues from the EOSC projects are being planned (EOSC Nordic, EOSC Synergy, EOSC-hub). Provisional dates are 6th and 7th of April, from 10:30 to 12:30 CET, they will be confirmed asap. WP1 needs to involve now WP3 and WP4 in the preparation and it was agreed that we would ask Carlo, Sylvie, Linh for WP3 and Chris and Franz for WP4.</p>
<p>Sophie also reported the <b>reporting period to the European Commission</b> had started yesterday. Instructions will be sent for the financial report later today and for the technical report soon after that.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>On the <b>data policy consultation</b>, Abigail shared <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/blob/master/WP2/Data_policy_consultation/Progress.md'>the table to monitor progress</a> at the different facilities and encouraged participants to keep it updated. The feedback to WP2 is due by the end of April so the first two steps (finding the right contact and scheduling the interviews) should now be done. Additionally, Abigail is writing an ‘implementation story’ for <b>FAIRsFAIR</b>, explaining how we used their recommendations for our data policy framework.</p>
<p>The report from the <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Z8jDMCDfq7NiPFnGPUPglqX1tEkaP_TtfPqq7iKNquU/'><b>PIDs</b> and DOI session</a> is available for participants to review and provide feedback to (file access restricted to WP2 for now).</p>
<p>The <b>PaN session at the RDA plenary</b> was accepted, without a confirmed timeslot yet. Brian now would like to discuss the possible subsidy from ExPaNDS/PaNOSC travel money to cover the registration fees of speakers at least, of bulk registrations at best. A meeting on Friday is scheduled with WP6 and will be used to discuss this.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Alun reported progress <b>implementing the ontologies</b> developed at beamlines for some techniques. PaNOSC is also working on the demonstration of the <b>search API</b> where ExPaNDS is also contributing.</p>
<p>With regards to the ontology deliverable, Sylvie agreed to contact EGI to discuss further the feasibility of onboarding <b>BioPortal</b> as an EOSC service. It is indeed part of our upcoming deliverable that the ontology is made available in the EOSC portal, even if it is through another service.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The integration of the PaN portal in EOSC was discussed and it might be that each facility deployment would need to be onboarded and not only a central instance hosted by one of the facilities. Which means that our integration in EOSC has to also involve the e-infrastructures. Anton shared in that regard EOSC-hub’s <a href='https://eosc-portal.eu/sites/default/files/EOSC-hub%20Integration%20Handbook%20for%20Service%20Providers.pdf'>‘Integration handbook for service providers’</a>.</p>
<p>Anton updated us on the status of WP4’s deliverables:</p>
<ul>
  <li>D4.1 on <b>EOSC integration</b> is being finalised and will be sent for internal review today or tomorrow,</li>
  <li>D4.2 with the <b>reference datasets and associated pipelines</b> was finalised and delivered: <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4558708'>10.5281/zenodo.4558708</a></li>
  <li>D4.3 on the <b>test framework</b> will be the next focus.</li>
</ul>
<p>The upcoming WP4 meeting on Friday will be the occasion to discuss the roadmap for the technical implementations (see previous minutes) and to progress on the selection of a use case for the review meeting.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Thibaud mentioned the <b>Jupyter Notebook implementation</b> in the PaN learning platform was a milestone for PaNOSC scheduled in May 2021. They are however aiming to have it done by the end of the month for the second part of the train the trainers workshop.</p>
<p>During the <a href='https://www.fairsfair.eu/events/fairsfair-week-2021'><b>FAIRsFAIR week</b></a>, there will be a dedicated session on training. It is via invitation only but Thibaud should be able to get it via the training task force of the INFRA-EOSC-5 projects.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat reported quite a lot of activities were taking place in WP6 at the moment:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>Survey results</b> for training sent back to WP5;</li>
  <li>SharePoint made easier for reviewers to navigate;</li>
  <li>Ongoing preparations for the <b>interviews to replace the user meeting</b>;</li>
  <li>Ongoing preparations for the <b>ExPaNDS promotional video</b>;</li>
  <li>Updated <b>presentation deck</b> to be finalised for internal review by the end of the week (it is a deliverable due M18);</li>
  <li>Upload to Zenodo of all WP6 deliverables that are not yet there;</li>
  <li>Communication around the RDA session preparation with Brian;</li>
  <li><b>Librarian symposium</b> preparation with WP2.</li>
</ul>"

aob: ""
---
