---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Anton, Uwe, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>First period report accepted by the EC</h2><p>The report for our first period was accepted by the EC and the interim payment was sent to DESY. Sophie and Bea will now distribute the scheduled transfers in the next few days to the financial contacts.</p>
<h2>All-hands meeting #2</h2><p>Valentina informed us that the LEAPS plenary planned in October turned fully digital. Alun added that XFEL and ESS already know they will not be allowed to travel in foreign countries until the end of the year. Overall, it seems the chances to reach a “critical mass” of people who will be both willing and allowed to travel to PSI in October 2021 are low.</p>
<p>For the first plenary session which will consist of “one-way” talks, it was agreed to prepare a fully digital event, allowing a wide audience. For the internal all-hands sessions however, it was agreed that it didn’t make much sense to switch to a virtual event, which will not enable the interaction that is needed to make it different from our regular Zoom meetings.</p>
<p>What was consequently suggested by the PEB is as follows:</p>
<ul>
  <li><b>keep the 26th of October as a virtual plenary event</b>, the EOSC PaN symposium 2021, publicly open and with external speakers;</li>
  <li><b>postpone the 2 WP-days</b> initially planned on the 27th and 28th of October <b>to late spring / early summer 2022</b>, with the hope of getting this “critical mass” of people willing to come together then. We would in this case aim to meet at PSI as initially envisioned.</li>
</ul>
<p>Andy agreed on the principle and will relay this suggestion to PaNOSC.</p>
<p>Concerning speakers for the EOSC PaN symposium, it was agreed to invite <b>Dr. Caterina Biscari</b>, the chair of LEAPS, to talk about the sustainability of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC outputs. It is already confirmed that <b>Robert McGreevy</b> (ISIS Director and LENS Chair) will talk about LENS perspective on this topic. Andy suggested using the opportunity of the “The future of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC” (~11:20-11:40h, Oct 21) presentation at the LEAPS plenary to propose a plan and give Catarina the opportunity to reply to it a week later during our EOSC PaN symposium.</p>
<p>Valentina will send an “unofficial invitation” to Catarina and the organisational committee will then produce official invitations, for all speakers.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Yesterday, Patrick and Sophie met with <b>HMC Matter</b>, the branch of the Helmholtz Metadata Collaboration which deals with photon science. There is an opportunity for collaboration between us on several levels, e.g.:</p>
<ul>
  <li>sustainability of tools we develop like the ontology or the PaN-training platform;</li>
  <li>input and training on FAIR assessment for beamlines or NeXus format use.</li>
</ul>
<p>Sophie will put them in contact with Brian to arrange a discussion during one of the next WP2 meetings.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>The <b>updated data policy framework</b> is in its final stages with the review from Alun, Uwe and Sophie received and processed by Brian and Abigail. The consultation was a very interesting exercise that is well captured in the deliverable. It will be delivered on time.</p>
<p>Concerning the other tasks:</p>
<ul>
  <li>a <b>DMP template</b> outline is now available and will be further developed, e.g. to get it more structured;</li>
  <li>the task on PIDs is looking to hold a <b>second workshop on PIDs</b> around the annual meeting timing. Vasily will contact Kat to see if / how WP6 can help;</li>
  <li>the upcoming work on the <b>metadata framework update</b> and associated consultation were discussed last week with Nicolas and Abigail. It will be a different process than the data policy consultation that will more specifically focus on WP3 partners.</li>
</ul>"
#WP3
- "<p>Sylvie will leave Diamond and ExPaNDS in October 2021. Diamond is meeting early September to discuss her replacement. </p>
<p>Carlo has triggered task leaders to initiate the work on T3.3, T3.4 and T3.5. For the upcoming milestone, WP3 created a <b>standalone and easy-to-install SciCat</b> with associated documentation. It includes the search API with example data, including metadata following the techniques ontology. It will be useful for partners who don’t have a catalogue yet and for the training material to be developed in the frame of WP3. The document supporting the milestone is being finalised, adding input on what is planned also for ICAT.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Following the mid-term review, Anton now has a clear idea on the <b>next steps for WP4</b>:</p>
<ul>
  <li>containerising non-Jupyter workflows;</li>
  <li>registering ExPaNDS providers with EOSC;</li>
  <li>finalising the testing framework both for Jupyter and non-Jupyter services.</li>
</ul>
<p>Andy informed us a <b>parallel portal for the search API</b> that had been developed at ELI is being considered to be taken over at the ESRF, which would be good sustainability news. This still needs to be clarified.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Next week WP5 meets to organise the next period. The upcoming deliverables and milestone for August and September are in good shape and should all be ready on time.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Upon Isabelle’s return this week, Kat will be finalising the M24 deliverables for WP6. The organisation for the <b>librarian symposium</b> is progressing, with confirmed speakers from F1000 for example.</p>
<p>Kat is also working on small changes to the ExPaNDS.eu <b>website</b> following the remark to add a disclaimer for deliverables that are published but not yet accepted by the EC. See <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/28'>issue #28</a>.</p>
<p>The <b>metrics survey</b> results are being collated by François at Diamond, and is only missing 2-3 facilities who didn’t manage to answer. How and when the results will be published and if the raw data will be made available are still to be defined.</p>
<p>The promotional video’s release was postponed to avoid the summer season quiet and will happen around the beginning of September.</p>"

aob: "No AOB."
---
