---
attendees: "Patrick, Daniel, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Majid, Thibaud, Uwe, Kat"
intro: "<h1>Current priorities for ExPaNDS facilities from WP leaders</h1>
<h2>User meeting: changing the way we engage with users (09/02/2021)</h2>
<p>Kat presented the new strategy for the ExPaNDS user meeting deliverable. Instead of a unique event for all users, Isabelle and her suggest to take the opportunity to rethink the format and reach each identified stakeholder individually.</p>
<p>The proposed <b>spectrum of stakeholders</b> was discussed, with suggestions to add e.g. training material creators and technique developers. The point behind this mapping is to know how we are going to engage with each identified stakeholder with a specific use case and/or with specific outreach activities.</p>
<p>As part of the strategy, the engagement with several stakeholder groups will consist of individual <b>interviews</b> with a few very open questions. The questions are being refined.</p>
<h2>Facility data policy consultation (09/02/2021)</h2>
<p>Abigail presented the set of documents available to guide the individual facility consultations:</p>
<ul>
  <li>the “<b>thirty elements to consider within a PaN Data Policy Framework</b>” which is a 8-pages summary of the D2.1 deliverable to be sent to the facility policy maker in preparation for the interview(s);</li>
  <li>the “<b>Consultation aims and framing questions</b>” document to guide the actual meeting. The answers to the questions are free-text. These answers need to be sent back to WP2 <u>by the end of April 2021</u>. Abigail encouraged a prompt start because it takes time to reach the right persons and then to meet them.</li>
</ul>
<p>Alun mentioned some concerns about being able to reach the policy makers at the right level because PSI is under an overarching national ICT infrastructure which is imposing the data policy. Some other concerns were mentioned from HZDR and DESY. It was agreed that in the case where we are unable to concretise a data policy consultation within the duration of ExPaNDS, we should precisely <b>evidence</b> why we didn’t manage to do it.</p>
<p>Andy also shared his recent experience in <b>PaNOSC</b> where he managed to get a written engagement from each facility on the points they will update in their respective policy to make it FAIRer. He mentioned we could also address the people who prepare the data policy-related decisions, and not necessarily directly the ones who will sign them. Andy’s deliverable will be available in a few days, he will share it with us.</p>
<p>The advantages for scientists for an updated data policy were also discussed. For example, showing the policy can enable us to have a better metadata quality and also trigger better references are good <b>incentives</b>. If users are on board, the facilities will follow.</p>
<h2>Next priorities in the technical implementations</h2>
<p>Daniel presented the result of the recent discussions with Alun and Anton to refocus the efforts in WP4 on partners infrastructure and candidate analysis services. Each facility is to develop, with its infrastructure (1.1 in the following diagram), a <b>containerised scientific use-case</b> (in container or VM or Jupyter Notebook, 1.3) with access to the local data catalogue (1.2).</p>
<p>In the frame of the <b>test framework</b>, this implementation will be tested on the use case (2.1), checking e.g. that results are aligned with the reference results of the pipeline’s reference dataset, and on the infrastructure itself (2.2).</p>
<p>The necessary steps to making this set-up available externally (“EOSCification”, 3) will be developed in parallel, with their own test infrastructure, including security aspects (2.3).</p>
<p>The next steps will be to identify in WP4 (and WP3) the teams to work on these 3 aspects and design a <b>roadmap</b>, with regular checkpoints including, whenever relevant, internal milestones.</p>
<img src='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/blob/master/WP4/20210216-Technical-implementation.png' alt='Implementation Diagram'>
<h2>Training strategy</h2>
<p>In parallel to the workshops already organised (on FAIR), and in planning (on EOSC and possibly on DMPs with EOSC-hub), Thibaud is currently focusing the WP on the <b>training material aggregator</b>. As previously presented, it complements the e-learning platform PaNOSC is updating, in order to make our training materials findable, without additional work needed to onboard them into the Moodle (~1 day additional work for already available content). </p>
<p>With Giuseppe, Oliver and the new person to be recruited for Soleil WP5, this Tess-like platform will be developed in the upcoming months. In an internal WP5 discussion, it was agreed that only registered participants would have the rights to upload material in the aggregator, as a quality assurance measure.</p>
<p>To start populating the platform and to showcase its added value for the PaN communities, Thibaud insisted on the help he needed from each facility to identify existing training material that we could already reference, using the <a href='https://www.surveymonkey.co.uk/r/M6B8F83'>survey</a> created with WP6. </p>
<p>Abigail mentioned the difficulties she was having to collect all the necessary information to complete the survey. One would need to have an overview that is really difficult to get, especially since training is very <b>decentralised</b> in our facilities, often down to the instrument level. An issue will be created. Uwe reminded us it was not the main task for WP5 which was first to create ExPaNDS-specific material but in the meantime it is a nice-to-have with possible high added-value for our facilities.</p>
<h1>Review meeting preparation</h1>
<p>Picking up on the focus to have ‘containerised’ use cases (see chapter 1.c.), the possibility to have a demo of a data analysis pipeline developed by partner A run on partner B infrastructure with local data, during the review meeting, was discussed. Uwe offered adding a HZDR pipeline running on Jupyter Notebook in the reference datasets (D4.2).</p>
<p>In general to help progress on the review preparation, Alun suggested to start a ‘storyboard’ for the meeting’s demos. Patrick will start it and WP3, WP4 and WP5 will add the technical possibilities. So far we have:</p>
<ul>
  <li>PaN portal deployed at a NRI with access to data using the search API</li>
  <li>Pipeline developed by partner A running on partner B infrastructure</li>
  <li>Use of PaN-learning to access a NRI tutorial</li>
</ul>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<ul>
  <li>Reminder of the upcoming start of the <b>first periodic report</b> - preparing instructions for financial and technical reports</li>
  <li>Finished <a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/reports-wp/reports-wp1.html'>WP1</a> and <a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/reports-wp/reports-wp2.html'>WP2</a> progress reports - will update all the others for the end of February because we have to do it for the periodic report anyway</li>
  <li>Making use of our GitHub’s features:</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Wiki: adding a <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki'>public FAQ</a></li>
    <li>Issues: progressively replacing the <b><a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues'>issue tracker</a></b> spreadsheet in SharePoint with individual issues to keep history (and it’s a nice feature)</li>
    <li>Working on <b><a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Mapping-ExPaNDS-and-PaNOSC-activities'>mapping activities between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC</a></b> with Jordi and Patrick - will ask for WP leaders review</li>
    <li>Need to start planning the next CB</li>
  </ul>
</ul>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail has now followed up individually, either by email or in separate meetings, with WP2 colleagues who are undertaking <b>consultations in relation to the data policy framework</b>. This was to ensure that the task asked was clear, and also to help with any questions about the consultation process and expected output. An email has also gone out to the list with suggestions of which areas of the facility might need to be involved in the consultation (e.g. user office, legal, computing, etc.). </p>
<p>In the monthly DMP task meeting, we selected a range of <b>use cases for the DMP work</b>. Jonathan and Heike will meet to discuss further before our next monthly meeting.</p>
<p>Abigail is in the process of writing up the <b>report on the task 2.4 PIDs for data best practice</b> sharing meeting. This should be finished in the next day or so, and then will go to the speakers to sense check the write ups of their presentations.  After that, it will go out to the WP2 list.</p>
<p>The next task 2.4 workshop on ‘other types of PIDs’ has been deferred until the second half of April. Vasily is working on the content and on contacting potential speakers.</p>
<p>Abigail has completed gathering information from all ExPaNDS facilities about <b>who is responsible for data and publication management at their facilities</b>, and how these two connect (or don’t connect).  We have gathered this info to help with the planning of our planned symposium for librarians and data managers.</p>"
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- "<ul>
  <li>Ongoing work and planning for the <b>new strategy of the ExPaNDS user meeting deliverable</b> to be replaced with ExPaNDS ‘User’ interviews. EC PO justification document / wording sent to WP1 for review.</li>
  <li>Promotion of <b>ESCAPE webinar</b> taking place 17th February at 14:00 GMT / 15:00 CET</li>
  <li>Promotion of <b>WP5 Survey</b> in collaboration with PaNOSC for the PaN Portal training, survey closing date Friday 19th February</li>
  <li>Ongoing planning for the <b>Librarian Symposium</b> with WP2, next meeting scheduled for 5th March 2021</li>
  <li>Review of SharePoint with internal meetings in readiness for Interim Review - this is ongoing. <strong>We would welcome any SharePoint feedback from all users, so we can continue to improve the user experience. I.e. access issues, layout suggestions, content review.</strong></li>
</ul>"

aob: "<ul>
  <li>Next joint PaNOSC / ExPaNDS Symposium to be discussed - PF / SS / KR </li>
</ul>"
---
