---
attendees: "Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Silvia, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat"
intro: "<h2>Status of the testing framework</h2><p>Postponed to next meeting.</p><h2>PaN training platform: material and workflows</h2><p>We started by welcoming Antoine, our newest PEB member. He will be from now on the deputy of WP5 lead and working specifically on the training platform for SOLEIL.</p><p>The <a href='https://pan-training.hzdr.de/'>prototype PaN training platform</a> is now at a stage where we should all start adding training material, and encourage beta-tester scientists to use it. The target for this platform covers all PaN community stakeholders: teachers and students will be most interested in the PaN-learning part and all the others in the catalogue of material, events and workflows.</p>
<p>Training on the platform itself is available <a href='https://pan-training.hzdr.de/about'>as a video here</a>. Oliver will also present it during the upcoming librarian symposium on the 30th.</p>
<p>All are invited to report issues in the platform (for example on the consistency of format) in the dedicated <a href='https://github.com/pan-training/training-catalogue/issues'>GitHub repository issues</a> here.</p>
<p>The metadata standard used for the material is DublinCore and the fields are from <a href='https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1rpuDwCrt-tC-kY5pNiJ2pOwFL-UQppy2Fra74Jja1JA/edit#gid=157509536'>RDA’s minimal metadata for training</a>. The data can be retrieved with an API, adding a .json extension to the page. This is described in the <a href='https://pan-training.hzdr.de/about'>“About” section</a>.</p>
<h2>“The future of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC” discussed at the LEAPS general assembly (17.09)</h2>
<p>Andy and Sophie have a 1h slot at the LEAPS General Assembly on the 17th of September to discuss “the future of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC”. This comes in preparation of the LEAPS plenary presentation on the 21st of October, where Andy and Patrick were invited to present on this topic. </p><p>This is useful preparation work also for the PaN EOSC symposium, where LEAPS and LENS representatives were invited to respond to the proposals that will be made.</p>
<h2>Programme of the PaN EOSC symposium 2021: 3 use cases needed</h2>
<p>In the programme of the virtual PaN EOSC symposium on the 26th of October, after the first part on LEAPS, LENS and sustainability, there is a second part focused on users. We have 3 x 15 minutes to present use cases from the ExPaNDS community. Ideas so far:</p>
<ul>
  <li>tomography use case Isabelle is building</li>
  <li>training platform with use of workflows</li>
</ul>
<p>We need to find speakers by the end of Sept. All to bring suggestions for the next PEB.</p>
<h2>The amendment in progress with WP6</h2>
<p>Our second amendment process with the Commission has now been launched for the user meeting replacement (cf. mid-term review). Isabelle and Sophie are preparing it with the objective to finalise it with Patrick by the end of September.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- "<p>Brian and Abigail are expecting Patrick’s “go” before publishing the supplementary material linked to the data policy framework consultation.</p><p>Heike is on track with the task on DMPs, with good coordination with PaNOSC. It will be the next deliverable for WP2, due end of Nov.</p><p>The content for the 2nd workshop on PIDs is being discussed. Kat will follow up with Vasily for the event organisation.</p><p>With one deliverable every 3 months from now on in WP2, deliverable leads are to articulate the work so everyone can get organised. This will be discussed at the next WP2 monthly meeting this Thursday.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Sylvie worked with Antoine to add material in the training catalogue for the PaN ontologies. EGI is still working with Bioportal for their onboarding process to the EOSC.</p><p>Recent talks with PaNOSC about the experimental techniques ontology (i.p. XFEL) will lead to the addition of some terms in the ontology. This will be the first “real-life” application of the maintenance process of the ontology and will help refine its governance (cf. <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/21'>issue #21</a>).</p>
<p>Sophie asked about the progress on B2FIND harvesting and Uwe will inquire for HZDR. It may be done “easily” since their data catalogue (<a href='https://rodare.hzdr.de/'>RODARE</a>) is using CERN’s Zenodo which has a built-in OAI-PMH interface. Nicolas also mentioned his colleagues in WP3 at ALBA are working on it.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Uwe suggested applying the principles from WP2-3 to WP4’s reference datasets, for more cross-WP consistency. e.g. identifying if these are FAIR and use the metadata schemas of the ontology and if not, identifying the gaps. To be discussed further with Anton during the next PEB.</p><p>Each WP4 facility is registering as a service provider in the EOSC portal. Uwe reported the process was slow at the moment on EOSC’s side, having started it a few weeks ago for HZDR. Abigail discussed this issue with other 5b projects and it is currently complicated for everyone. She offered to share the feedback collected.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>In addition to item #2 of the agenda (see above), WP5 submitted their annual report on training activities (D5.2) and the deliverable about the training platform (D5.4) is currently being reviewed for a delivery by the end of Sept.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>In addition to sorting the amendment, Isabelle reported that Kat applied to international conferences, in particular the Gordon X-ray Science series of conferences where 6 abstracts for posters were submitted.</p><p>It was confirmed that the librarian symposium will be recorded, to be then uploaded to the training platform. Isabelle is meeting the heads of comms tomorrow, she will make sure the information on the symposium reaches all facilities librarians and data managers.</p><p>The tomography use case continues being developed, including the involvement of ThermoFisher’s specialised reconstruction software.</p>"

aob: ""
---
