---
intro: "<p>This PEB was extended to all ExPaNDS facilities to get an overview of each partner’s status and a common agreement on the review meeting preparation. Patrick introduced summarising the current focus of the project: </p>
<ul>
  <li>The revamped user meeting currently planned by WP6, targeting each stakeholder more precisely and involving all facilities communication teams;</li>
  <li>The consultation on the data policy framework currently carried out by WP2, where we need to monitor more closely the progress and status for each facility; </li>
  <li>The current technical discussions between TC, WP3 and WP4 to refocus the efforts on partners infrastructure and candidate analysis services, where we also need to monitor more closely the status of each facility.</li>
</ul>
<h1>Review meeting preparation</h1>
<p>A first draft review meeting agenda was discussed:</p>
<ol>
  <li>Overview of the project and introduction of the scientific use case</li>
  <li>WP reports<br>Each WP reporting on their highlights. A detailed report will be made available in parallel to justify the compliance with the description of work, which is the reviewers’ main tool to judge the project.</li>
  <li>Illustration with a scientific use case<br>This last session should make very clear the link between the science and the technologies we are implementing. Gaps are possible at this point but we should already give a concrete picture of what we are trying to achieve.</li>
</ol>
<p>Alun showed the progress he made with Isabelle and Kat on the possible use cases, and reported on their meeting with EOSC-Life. </p>
<p>It was agreed that regular meetings would now be planned to focus on the review meeting preparation. <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/28590/'>A draft Indico event</a> was set up by Sophie. A rehearsal will be planned before the actual review, where the CB members will be invited. The possibility to make it open to everyone was also suggested. </p>
<h1>Report from each facility on status</h1>
<p>Each facility then provided an update of their status and concerns.</p>
<h2>ALBA</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Thanks to the new starter (Enric) in January, ALBA is on track with its budget;</li>
  <li>In the upcoming challenges, the data policy update needs to be addressed;</li>
  <li>There are difficulties with the portal deployment but nothing blocking.</li>
</ul>
<h2>DESY</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Overarching data policy at DESY has been rejected, but the directors are getting more and more aware of the topic (Frank and Patrick working on it);</li>
  <li>For data catalogues, DESY is a bit behind but Patrick reported Frank is envisioning to have a SciCat linked with <a href='https://cxidb.org/'>CXIDB</a> (see annual meeting);</li>
  <li>DESY WP4 is now refocusing on existing data analysis services, and a bit less on the portal deployment, which is better for the short-term objectives;</li>
  <li>DESY is still underspending for WP4 but discussions are planned internally;</li>
  <li>On the other WPs, DESY is on track with its budget.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Diamond</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Covid is still drawing away resources: on top of recruitment issues, Diamond is facing onboarding problems, with new people leaving. This situation needs to be properly monitored in the risk assessment (WP1);</li>
  <li>WP3 and 4 need more leadership internally, WP6 is doing very well;</li>
</ul>
<h2>EGI</h2>
<ul>
  <li>The current ExPaNDS team (Andrea and Giuseppe) will be further strengthened by a new recruit;</li>
  <li>EGI is just starting to get involved in WP3, where the new recruit will be most active;</li>
  <li>Andrea is mostly involved in WP4 and working on the upcoming deliverable with Anton;</li>
  <li>For WP1, to follow-up on Diego’s presentation of the onboarding procedure to EOSC, EGI will organise a workshop on EOSC for ExPaNDS;</li>
  <li>For WP5, EGI is attending the meetings regularly.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Elettra</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Difficulties to connect to beamline scientists on data management to materialise WP2 progress;</li>
  <li>For WP3 and WP4, Elettra is testing the search API and deployment of the portal.</li>
</ul>
<h2>HZB</h2>
<ul>
  <li>The current team (Rolf and Heike) will be further strengthened by a new recruit to replace Corina, the interviews are ongoing;</li>
  <li>HZB is well involved in WP2, notably on DMPs tasks;</li>
  <li>HZB is also involved in the WP3 search API and ontology;</li>
  <li>The data policy was adopted in 2016 at HZB, the technical implementation is still under way. Ants confirmed his management was supporting these topics.</li>
</ul>
<h2>HZDR</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Oliver is dedicated to ExPaNDS, making HZDR on track with its budget;</li>
  <li>HZDR’s data policy is applicable since 2018;</li>
  <li>HZDR participated in WP2 surveys, presented at the DOI workshop and participated in the review of deliverables (in-kind);</li>
  <li>For WP4: defined reference datasets, worked on federated AAI, portal and use cases;</li>
  <li>For WP5: Uwe suggested having an extra document explaining the intermediate results for the e-learning platform because the deliverable only comes later on. HZDR will participate in the upcoming TtT workshop;</li>
  <li>Concerns:
    <ul>
      <li>PaNOSC WP4 and WP8 portals developments are slow;</li>
      <li>Material offered in the e-learning platform needs to be better balanced between photon and neutron;</li>
      <li>Convincing beamline scientists to be engaged, even when there is a policy, remains a challenge.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<h2>Max IV (off-meeting)</h2>
<ul>
  <li>A new person, Linh, replaced Muhammad for WP3 and has started very well;</li>
  <li>In WP4 only Zdenek dedicates time for ExPaNDS and needs reinforcement but 2 consecutive recruitments failed - situation to be monitored;</li>
  <li>Some internal help from IT on setting up the infrastructure for WP4; </li>
  <li>MaxIV would like a bit more ‘organisation’ and 'charting the course' within ExPaNDS to clarify how WP3 is managed between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC;</li>
  <li>At the moment, struggling to fully understand EOSC and the various infrastructure connected to it, working on piecing it together for the upcoming WP3 task of ‘integrate to EOSC’;</li>
  <li>WP3 and WP4 not talking enough, possibly there are disconnections inside MAXIV between groups as well;</li>
  <li>A foreseen risk is the lack of endorsement of ExPaNDS by management and scientists. This is improving from the management side but it will take time for scientists to take up on it.</li>
</ul>
<h2>PSI</h2>
<ul>
  <li>The PSI team is complete with Krisztian, Carlo and Alun mainly, Stephan and Leo indirectly contributing also;</li>
  <li>Alun is satisfied with the integration of his new starters and is confident with WP3 and WP4 progress. Some difficulties remaining for WP1 and WP2, not made easier by the ongoing work for the facility upgrade;</li>
  <li>On the technical level, WP3 is ‘reactionary’ but Carlo is helping. SciCat is not accessible from outside and there are technical difficulties to address it but work is in progress;</li>
  <li>WP4, thanks to recent discussions with Daniel and Anton, is getting much better. There are remaining difficulties due to the PSI situation that computing is far from the scientists;</li>
  <li>The data policy update is complicated but Alun is aware he has to push.</li>
</ul>
<h2>SOLEIL</h2>
<ul>
  <li>The data policy was adopted in 2018 and it is being implemented; Soleil was hoping ExPaNDS would help with it and also with the catalogue implementation (SciCat) but it is not yet the case;</li>
  <li>Difficulties linked to the fact that ExPaNDS Soleil team is not in direct contact to scientists;</li>
  <li>Recruitment for WP4 still has not succeeded, Majid is concerned, especially for the task SOLEIL is leading. Parallel discussions are ongoing with WP1 to try and solve this.</li>
</ul>
<h2>UKRI</h2>
<ul>
  <li>WP2 is on track with Abigail working full time and a new person to help in the task on PIDs (Vasily);</li>
  <li>in WP3, Alejandra and Stuart are helping on the ICAT API and on the ontology, Brian mentioned they would like to do more but don't have the effort;</li>
  <li>ISIS contributors (Anders, Franz) are focusing on WP4, where it is going ok but is a bit slow.</li>
</ul>
<h1>Current priorities for ExPaNDS facilities from WP leaders</h1>
<p>This section was adjourned to a follow-up meeting dedicated to the preparation of the use case for the review.</p>
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- ""
#WP2
- ""
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- ""
#WP5
- ""
#WP6
- ""

aob: ""
---
