---
attendees: "Daniel, Sophie, Valentina, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Silvia, Anton, Thibaud, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy"
intro: "<h2>EGI-ACE call for use cases</h2>
<p>The EGI-ACE project opened a <a href='https://www.egi.eu/projects/egi-ace/call-for-use-cases/'>call for use cases</a>, providing for 2 years storage and compute resources to selected data services. Through EGI we already have access / provide resources to horizontal infrastructures but keeping this possibility in mind can be good for punctual or specific needs.</p>
<h2>Review meeting rehearsal preparation</h2>
<p>To prepare for next week’s session, Sophie and Alun reminded all WP leaders to add highlights and foreseen structure of their WP presentations in the slide decks linked in the <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/28590/'>Indico event</a>. We didn’t receive news from the Commission yet.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>For the <b>report to the European Commission</b>, Sophie recalled that the financial statements were expected by the end of March (3/11 partners have submitted them so far). For the technical part, the shared document is progressing quite well thanks to the WP contributions. Sophie encouraged the missing WPs (WP4 and parts of WP5) to finalise their part asap in the <a href='https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_Qwm0dFVRw87ur0eJF0kynwM89VtNFmWCqcWWDaU6sg/edit'>shared document</a>. So next steps are:</p>
<ul>
  <li>add pictures (All)</li>
  <li>finalise WP5 report (Thibaud)</li>
  <li>finalise WP4 report (Anton)</li>
  <li>check overall homogeneity and add comments/tracked changes if needed (Sophie)</li>
  <li>book meetings with each WP and Patrick for the deviations part once the PMs spent are available (Sophie)</li>
</ul>
<p>The other focus of WP1 right now is the upcoming <b>workshop on EOSC</b>. Kat helped a lot with dissemination and we have 57 registrants already. Sophie also stated her appreciation of the help of EGI but also PSI, HZB and PaNOSC WP6 in making an <a href='https://indico.desy.de/event/29297/'>interesting agenda</a>.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Abigail presented the PaN metadata framework to the <b>FAIR TF</b> of the INFRA-EOSC-5 projects today.</p>
<p><b>Data policy consultation</b> results have been finalised for DESY and interviews are now complete for ALBA, Diamond, HZDR and Max IV. The discussions and the feedback received so far are very interesting. Abigail reminded the remaining facilities (HZB, Soleil and PSI) that the results were expected by the end of April. To start writing the final version of the data policy framework, meetings have now been planned every two weeks, starting in May.</p>
<p>For the DMP task, partners are currently invited to answer the list of questions from the <a href='https://rdmorganiser.github.io/'><b>RDMO</b></a>.</p>
<p>For the upcoming <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries/rda-17th-plenary-meeting-edinburgh-virtual/sharing-fair-data-covid-research-photon-and'>PaNSIG session</a> at the 17th <b>RDA plenary</b>, the organisers offered a “day ticket” of 100£ and a bulk registration for PaN. A separate meeting will be held with WP6/WP1 to see what we can offer and to whom.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>In addition to the recent reporting activities, Sylvie mentioned the presentation organised last Friday on <b>ontologies</b>. Alejandra shared her general and long-acquired experience on the topic and Steve presented the update for the upcoming ExPaNDS deliverable. There was a good attendance and follow-up meetings between Brian, Alejandra and Steve are planned in the following days, to discuss e.g. relating our work to <a href='https://emmc.info/emmo-info/'>EMMO</a>. PSI beamline scientists are also being involved via Carlo to provide feedback on what Diamond is preparing.</p>
<p>During last week’s <b>NeXus codecamp</b>, the script developed by ExPaNDS WP3 to extract NeXus classes and fields into an OWL was presented and well received by the NIAC. There will be a formal vote during the next assembly to accept it or not. If it is accepted, it will be hosted in NeXus Github and benefit from its sustainability and governance model.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The <b>framework</b> deliverable (D4.1) is now delivered to the EC and made public: <a href='https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4569421'><img src='https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4569421.svg' alt='10.5281/zenodo.4569421' style='width:25%'></a>. It is a month late but Anton appreciated the discussions it raised and thought it was worth the extra time to straighten it up.</p>
<p>The <b>testing framework</b> and how to link it to the portal are currently being discussed. Anton participated in last week’s PaNOSC meeting and is also meeting Fabio, the new PaNOSC WP4 leader this week.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>PaNOSC’s “Train the trainers” workshop for the <b>PaN learning platform</b> is now finished. Andy asked if ExPaNDS participants had feedback to provide. Developing a course on the platform is a lot of work which can be overwhelming for our scientist (case of DESY participant). The feature to upload or link to a video or external resource will probably be more easily used at first. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>On top of the reporting activities, which include for WP6 additional work on the KPIs and update of the communication strategy, Isabelle reported the <b>WP3 use cases</b> were now integrated in the slide deck to present ExPaNDS. The commercial FAIR use case for tomography will also be included in about two weeks.</p>
<p>Isabelle is also working to get some <b>metrics</b> for the review meeting, on the number of publications from PaN in the first period for example. In addition, the visuals to help demonstrate what the PaN services landing page could look like progressed and Isabelle will be sharing them with the WPs for feedback.</p>
<p>Following feedback from the annual meeting, the editorial process to add <b>profiles</b> in the expands.eu website has also started with the aim to present actual people who are working for the grant.</p>
<p>Regarding the <b>user meeting replacement</b>, Isabelle called the Diamond user community and received 40 responses from possible ambassadors happy to be more engaged and to give feedback on the use cases we are developing. A local collaboration with Sylvie to map publications to data DOIs in 12 different disciplines at Diamond was also started.</p>
<p>In addition, Ben who used to work at MAX IV is working closely with Patrick on a 6-9 minutes “<b>promotional video</b>” for the project, to be delivered for the review.</p>"

aob: ""
---
