---
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Carlo, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Isabelle, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "
<h1>Face-to-face-meeting</h1>
<ul>
 <li>Date: 14-15 June 2022</li>
 <li>Location: ELI’-ERIC, near Prague</li>
 <li>Who: ExPaNDS and PaNOSC</li>
</ul>
<p>Alun, Abigail, Antoine and Anton are not able to attend in person. Abigail reminded the PEB that we did agree previously within the PEB to offer any in-person events also as a hybrid option for the remainder of the project.
<p>For <b>WP3</b> Carlo and Krisztian are attending. 
<p>For <b>WP4</b> Majid is attending. 
<p>Goal of this meeting is to work on the topics of the DOW  and their status for the final report.
<p>Members of the preparation meeting are Patrick, Kat and Juliane from ExPaNDS and Andy, Nicoletta, Jordi and Teodor from PaNOSC.
 <p>
<h1>EOSC Association Survey</h1>
<p>The EOSC Association Board meets ongoing <b>Horizon 2020 INFRA-EOSC Projects</b>. They set up a survey to define KERs of the projects and sort them within the EOSC agility groups and task forces. 
<p>Patrick, Paul and Juliane defined the KERs and have filled in the survey roughly. Now input of the WP leaders is required for finishing the survey until Thursday afternoon. 
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>All <b>financial interim reports</b> from the partners have been delivered. 
<p>Majid helped Marta and Juliane with the PaN scenarios for <b>D1.6 (General architecture description in relation to the EOSC service)</b>."
#WP2
- "<p>D2.7 is progressing. Nicolas (task lead) has distributed ‘homework’ to task contributors, so everyone should be clear on which sections they need to write/finalise. With timely contributions from colleagues, Nicolas aims to have the document ready to go for internal review around mid-May.
<p>Work on task <b>2.5 (FAIR assessment)</b> is ongoing. A preliminary list of questions for the survey is now complete. Next steps include refining and reducing the number of questions to a manageable number. Given the complexity of finalising the survey and accompanying contextual information, it seems likely that we will postpone the 25th May workshop by a few weeks (possibly until after the planned June PaNOSC/ExPaNDS meeting?)  Abigail to discuss a new date further with task participants and then with Kat.
<p>
<p>A kick off meeting for the second deliverable associated with the <b>DMP work (task 2.2)</b> is planned for 6th May.  Final details about the meeting to be sent out by Heike (task lead).
"
#WP3
- "<p>Nothing to report."
#WP4
- "<p>Nothing to report."
#WP5
- "<p>WP5 is looking for new material for the training platform.
<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) ((<a href='pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).
<p>
<p>Other topics:
<p>- Small aesthetic changes done and new materials uploaded to the catalogue since the last meeting. <b>UmbrellaID Workshop</b> (03/05) added as an event to the training platform
<p>- <b>Leaps Quantum conference</b> (May 2022, ELBA): Oliver will attend the event. There will be a poster presenting the training catalogue with a link to the platform
<p>- Joint presentation of the training platform at the <b>LEAPS/LENS IT group meeting</b> (09/05)  by Uwe, Ana and Andrew confirmed
<p>- LEAPS/LENS NEXUS presentations compilation: Ana asked Andy Goetz if he can put Nexus presentations from WG3 LENS/LEAPS on Zenodo if he thinks that is pertinent. The final objective is to make them available via the training catalogue.
"
#WP6
- "<p>Nothing to report."

aob: "<p>Nothing to report."
---
