---
attendees: "Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Carlo, Anton, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "
<p>Patrick, Isabelle, Alun and Ana  send their apologies.
<h1>Deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p><b>D5.3</b>Annual report on training activities, workshops held, materials published and investigations performed (31/08/2022)
<p><b>D5.5</b>Dedicated websites and e-platforms with the teaching material (31/08/2022)
<p>Ana is working on the deliverables.
<p><b>M26</b> Ambassador engagement from all facilities user communities (31/07/2022)
<p>Kat will send a note to add to the milestone in the EU portal.
<h1>News from PaNOSC</h1>
<p>Andy wrote a short abstract for the NOBUGS conference for PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. He asked who is coming to the conference and who would like to present something (poster or presentation). Deadline: 19/08/2022.
<p>Andy is attending the conference and will present both projects, when nobody else is attending. Everyone endorses the abstract and Andy’s idea. 
The abstract will be submitted if the PaNOSC PMC agrees. 
<p>
<p>The deliverable D3.4 (Implementation report from facilities) on federated search was submitted and is available on GitHub.
<p>
<p><b>ICRI</b>: Andy and Patrick are still waiting for an invitation for the ICRI. When they will not get one, the consideration is to have only a remote satellite event. 
<p>
<p>Andy has sent an email about the submission of a paper to the LEAPS + LENS management boards on the continued participation of the PaN community in the
building of the EOSC. It has to be submitted in the beginning of September. Please send your feedback until 30th August
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<p><b>Progress report meetings</p> are prepared. It is hard to find time slots because of the full calendars of the WP leaders.
"
#WP2
- "
<p>The FAIR reporting is going on and a new meeting is being organised for the end of September. The deliverable has to be submitted at the end of November. Simon and Abigail are writing on the full outline for D2.6.
"
#WP3
- "
<p>Carlo is collecting numbers for the KPI’s. Some facilities have gone backwards with their numbers in the survey, which must be validated. Carlo will do that and will catch the missing answers after his holiday in three weeks. 
"
#WP4
- "
<p>Anton is monitoring the tasks in his WP regularly in the meetings. It is important to focus on what the people want to deliver at the end of the project.
<p>Abigail would like to know how many registrations from the facilities there are already for EOSC as a service provider. 
Answer: eight facilities (this is also a KPI)
<p>This is also an important task for WP2, because it is also about the fair use policies to be implemented. 
<p>Anton shows the document, in which WP4 is monitoring all the tasks. 
"
#WP5
- "
<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).
<p>Antoine and Marta are working on the workflows. 
The last meeting was about Small-Angle Neutron Scattering (STFC, Franz Lang) on 11th August 2022. 
The next meeting is about Serial Crystallography (DESY, Anton Barty).
"
#WP6
- "
<p>The IXS takes place from 21st to 26th August 2022. Alejandra will present ExPaNDS. WP6 is sponsoring this event with ExPaNDS bottles and bags.
Kat is participating in the ALBA user meeting from 5th to 8th September. She is also interviewing Caterina Biscari for the senior level engagement. 
<p>
<p>For the VISA workshop in December there are already 42 registrants.
<p>
<p>Instead of an ExPaNDS user meeting there will be a Diamond user meeting with international scientist with a session for ExPaNDS and PaNOSC.
"

aob: "Brian and Abigail are not attending the next PEB meeting."
---
