---
attendees: "Patrick, Brian, Alun, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<h1>Report from Conferences:</h1>
<p><b>Our contribution to the ESOF2022 , European Science Open Forum (online)</b>
<ul>
  <li>Report by KR</li>
  <li><a href='https://www.esof.eu/esof2022-conference-gallery/'>Event Website</a></li>
  <li>Abstract submitted for a panel discussion with contribution by ExPaNDS / PaNOSC. ESOC allocated presentation time was for Saturday, 16/7/2022 at 8:00 CEST</li>
  <li>Anticipated low attendance, due to day and timing presentations were pre-recorded and highlighted Open access and Open data.</li>
  <li>Plan to put the recordings to be used and published</li>
</ul>
<p>Presentations as follows:
<ul>
  <li>Dr Ben Perry from DNDi covering COVID moonshot</li>
  <li>Dr Claire Walsh from UCL covering the Human Organ Atlas</li>
  <li>Dr Sam Horrell from Diamond Light Source covering Protein Data Bank (PDB)</li>
</ul>
<p>Panel session. Panellists:
<ul>
  <li>Isabelle (chair)</li>
  <li>Prof. Andrew Harrison (Diamond) representing LEAPS</li>
</ul>
<p><b>PARI: Public awareness of Research Infrastructures 2022</b>
<ul>
  <li><a href='https://www.eric-forum.eu/event/pari-2022-public-awareness-of-research-infrastructures/'>Event Website</a></li>
  <li>Kat presented the most recent achievements for ExPaNDS and mentioned our sister project PaNOSC.</li>
  <li>142 registered participants (60 in-person, 82 remotely) from 24 countries taking part in the conference.</li>
</ul>
<p><b>Conference on Inelastic X-ray Scattering IXS 2022</b>
<ul>
  <li>ExPaNDS sponsorship</li>
  <li>Date: 21 - 26 Aug, 2022 </li>
</ul>
<p><b>NOBUGS (New Opportunities for Better User Group Software)</b>
 <ul>
  <li>Will take place at PSI, 19 - 22 Sep, 2022</li>
  <li>Nobugs sponsorship is tricky, as we’re not able to raise invoices against member facilities</li>
</ul>
<p><b>ESCAPE to the Future</b>
<ul>
  <li>Will take place in Brussels, 25 - 26 Oct, 2022</li>
  <li><a href='https://projectescape.eu/events/escape-future'>Event Website</a></li>
  <li>Andy invited as represantative of the PaN cluster</li>
</ul>
<p><b>IUCr - International Union of Crystallography</b>
<ul>
  <li>Will take place in Melbourne, August 2023</li>
  <li>Andy is giving a key-note on PaNOSC and ExPANDS</li>
  <li><a href='https://www.iucr.org/iucr/cong/2023-iucr-xxvi'>Event Website</a></li>
</ul>
<p><b>ICRI side event planned for PaNOSC & ExPaNDS</b>
<ul>
  <li><a href='https://www.icri2022.cz/'>Event Website</a></li>
  <li>Unfortunately the main event is by invitation only, which will likely reduce the number of people coming and enjoying the main event and our side event. That information was only communicated in recent days. We have our doubts that we’ll have a lot of ‘on site’ participation. We’re currently considering whether to hold this as a virtual meeting only.
</li>
  <li>It is unclear whether we can step away from the side-event. Considering whether Patrick and Andy travel to be there for these two hours. We would like to avoid having invited speakers present without an actual audience.</li>
</ul>
<p><b>ESUO general assembly (Closed conference)</b>
<ul>
  <li>Will take place at SOLEIL, 29 – 30 August, 2022</li>
  <li>A 15 minutes presentation slot has been secured by AVO and will be delivered by MO.</li>
  <li>Presentation will be based on a selection of slides from the latest deliverable of D6.13</li>
</ul>
<p><b>LEAPS general assembly meeting</b>
<ul>
  <li>16th September (online)</li>
  <li>10–15 minutes</li>
  <li>ExPaNDS and PaNOSC continuation within LEAPS</li>
  <li>Andy to send the status of the EOSC-01-01 setting up and the mandate text to be approved by the GA before the 2nd of September</li>
  <li>Ana will present the two questions at the LEAPS</li>
  <ul>
    <li>Status of the INFRA-2023-EOSC-01-01 call</li>
    <li>Request for mandate from LEAPS to represent PaN in this call</li>
  </ul>
  <li><a href='https://indico.psi.ch/event/12865/'>Next plenary meeting will take place 26 - 28 Oct at PSI</a></li>
</ul>
<h1>Milestones and deliverables</h1>
<p><b>6.13 ExPaNDS presentation for conferences 2022-06-30</b>
<p>This has been delivered and uploaded to the EC portal.
<p><b>6.24 Senior level engagement 2022-06-30</b>
<p>On-going; however, the deliverable itself is expected for review by lunchtime tomorrow.
<p>Milestone-wise: “there is a plan”.
<h2>Upcoming</h2>
<p><b>5.3 Annual report on training activities, workshops held, materials published and investigations performed 2022-08-31</b>
<p>Already updated the Training plan.
<p><b>5.5 Dedicated websites and e-platforms with the teaching material 2022-08-31</b>
<p>HZDR created a nice Poster presenting the platform. Ana will send Kat the details on the poster. Kat will chase up Facilities to get the poster presented.
The poster will essentially become D5.5
<p><b>2.6 Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification 2022-11-30</b>
<p><b>2.8 Active DMPs for Photon and Neutron RIs 2022-11-30</b>
"
status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<ul>
  <li>Push for the deliverables.</li>
  <li>Collected the financial information from partners.</li>
  <li>Juliane sent around questions about the Review recommendations, (Issue in GitHub), Please respond.</li>
</ul>  
  "
#WP2
- "
<ul>
  <li>Metadata Deliverable D2.7 went in.</li>
  <li>Workshop of the 2022-07-06 on FAIR assessment was successful</li>
  <li>Planning a follow-up workshop on 2022-10-26.</li>
</ul> 
"
#WP3
- "
<ul>
  <li>Carlo is struggling to get feedback on KPI’s. AA will chase this.</li>
  <li>Planning a joint meeting with PaNOSC in Autumn. Suggest move it. Final date is not confirmed.  Week of 31st October.</li>
  <li>Dwindling of staff, delaying activity. AA(PSI) is hosting someone from SOLEIL.</li>
</ul> 
"
#WP4
- "
<ul>
  <li>Organisation of the workshop around VISA on 16th September.</li>
  <li>Final review of architecture document.</li>
</ul> 
"
#WP5
- "
<ul>
  <li>VISA Workshop – working in parallel with WP4 and WP6.</li>
  <ul>
    <li>16th September: 11:00–16:00 CEST. 1 hour lunch break.</li>
    <li>We have a draft agenda (not all speakers are confirmed). We have a text for an email announcement (save the date) and for the website.</li>
    <li>Patrick has agreed to moderate the round-table.</li>
    <li>Next Tuesday (latest) to send the save-the-date email.</li>
    <li>UK raised an issue: wondering what about the VISA workshop that took place in Prague?  Shall we collect and make the materials available?  We could maybe sell this as a training session? Not sure if the presentations have been collected.  Presentations are uploaded to the ELI.  KR to check with Teodor to verify the presentations were collected. Training material/videos from SOLEIL that could be used by ExPaNDS. On track for this, more to report at the next PEB.</li>
  <li>Antoine : Implemented the suggestions on the Learning platform from Prague. The code will be deployed this evening.</li>
  <li>Ana wouldn’t be able to attend the meeting 2022-08-02 (next PEB).</li>
</ul> 
"
#WP6
- "
<ul>
  <li>D6.13 has been delivered.</li>
  <li>D6.24 successfully Andrew Harrison (Diamond) and Robert. This is to support senior management endorsement.</li>
  <li>Upcoming interviews</li>
  <ul>
    <li>2022-08-26 DESY (Helmut Dosch)</li>
    <li>2022-09-05 ALBA (Caterina Biscari)</li>
  </ul>
  <li>European PaN meeting 2 – 3 November in Brussels is pending a final location, numbers, agenda etc.</li>
  </ul>
"

aob: "Nothing to report."
---
