---
published: 
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Carlo, Anton, Majid, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Paul"
intro: "The f2f meeting must be planned. We will decide this evening if it takes place in June."

f2f meeting: "<p>Patrick, Paul and Juliane started a document for collecting topics. Juliane will transfer the topics that were already submitted with the survey (from Kat and Nicoletta). 
WP leaders, please check if there is anything else that we should discuss and enter people that you would like to meet there or that represent your work package.
<p>The number of people attending from ExPaNDS is limited to 25. 
<p>The meeting will be planned as a hybrid meeting.


status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>All <b>financial interim reports</b> from the partners have been obtained. We are underspending and have sent some questions to the facilities and are waiting for feedback. 
<p>The <b>H2020 survey</b> of the EOSC Association was submitted on 29th April. 
<p>Marta and Juliane are working on the PaN scenarios for <b>D1.6</b> (General architecture description in relation to the EOSC service). They need help from Majid and Paul. 
"
#WP2
- "<p><b>D2.7</b> is being completed this week and will be ready for review. Reviewers are Kat, Patrick and Darren. 

<p>The <b>FAIR assessment workshop</b> will take place on 6th July.

<p>The kick off meeting for <b>D2.8</b> took place on 6th May."
#WP3
- "<p><b>UmbrellaID workshop</b> took place on 3rd May.

<p>WP3 is helping other facilities with data catalogues and SciCat (e.g. DESY, SOLEIL)."
#WP4
- "<p>The last meetings were dedicated to other WP’s (eg. WP5 and WP2)

<p>Next steps will be the 2f2 meeting in June and the VISA and SciCat workshops in July."
#WP5
- "<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) ((<a href='pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).

<p>Joint presentation of the training platform at the <b>LEAPS/LENS IT group meeting</b> (09/05) by Uwe. Topics to clarify: 
<p>Sustainability: is the platform sustainable? A suggestion was to have DOI’s for every training material. Is a YouTube link sustainable? 
<p>Licenses: Who has the license when uploading a teaching video? Does the platform has the license or the speaker?
"
#WP6
- "<p><b>D6.6</b> will be ready for review next week. 

<p><b>The <b>senior level engagement</b> is ongoing and Patrick will go to Brussels to meet the LEAPS directors and make an interview with the help of a crew from Diamond. 

<p><b>WP6 has ongoing meetings with WP1 and WP2, but needs to meet with WP3, WP4 and WP5. 
"

aob: "<p>Majid suggests to have an own icon on the EOSC market place for PaN. Patrick gives to consider that we do not have a logo for PaN in general. In the side bar search there is already a subitem “EOSC PaN”. Paul suggests to rename this into “PaN”. He will contact the EOSC market place. 
"
---
