---
published: 
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Carlo, Anton, Majid, Silvan, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Paul"
intro: "The agenda for the face to face meeting is being finalized. 
The PaNET session will be chaired by Paul and Carlo.
Abigails asks about the technical conditions at ELI and how the remote people can attend. Kat will check that and inform the attendees. 
Anton would like to have a sum up from ExPaNDS with the lighthouse projects that can be presented at the review. 

The EGI conference takes place 20/09-22/09 in Prague. Lots of EOSC projects will be presented. We would like to present a use case of ExPaNDS. PaNOSC is also presenting a use case and an open data computing model for ELI ERIC.
The NoBUGS conference takes place at the same time, most of the people from ExPaNDS canâ€™t attend the EGI conference.

"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "Juliane is working on the finalisation of the face to face agenda.
"
#WP2
- "D2.7 is being review and will be ready in 1-2 weeks. 

The FAIR assessment template is advanced and is ready at the end of the month. The initial workshop is on 6th of July with a representative of each facility of the project. The questions of the survey will be presented and open points will be clarified. 
The survey is open until the end of September, where in another workshop the facilities will present an overview of their responses and how/if the excercise was helpful for them in relation to their goals around FAIR data.. 
By returning their completed survey reports to WP2, facilities are agreeing to having their reports open published as part of D2.6.  This will be made clear both in the workshop itself and via a statement included on the survey.  To this end, facilities will need to ensure they have the necessary sign off from whoevers needs to do the sign off at their facility. 

Heike is preparing the workshop at the face to face meeting about DMPs (D2.8).
"
#WP3
- "Rolf suggested a workshop for the users of PIDs at the face to face meeting. Paul is needed for the discussion. 
There will be a hands on session (hackathon) from Max about the integration of the poral and the search API. 
"
#WP4
- "Silvan prepared the demo setups.
Majid is contributing in D1.6.
Majid would like to talk to Jamie about the compute API.
The use case demo from XFEL containers will be discussed in 20-30 min.
"
#WP5
- "Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).

Technical deployments are ongoing.

Ana and her team are organising their sessions for the f2f meeting. 

D5.3 and D5.5 are being prepared.

Ana encourages all WP leaders to join the discussion about the PID workshop.
"
#WP6
- "D6.6 is ready. 

Next conferences are the ESOF in Leiden (13-16 July 2022) and the PARI in the UK (18-20 July 2022).
"

aob: "Nothing to report."
---
