---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Juliane, Brian, Nicolas, Alun, Majid, Ana, Kat, Paul"
intro: "
<p>Patrick welcomes everybody.

<h1>Sustainability</h1>
<p>Andy, Sophie and Juliane met to discuss one-pager for LEAPS and LENS about each outcome of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. Sophie already prepared a very detailed document. This is the continuation of the survey that Andy did with each facility and shows the exploitability of our outcomes. 
WP1 will provide a rough overview of the one-pager and will ask the responsible persons for each outcome to fill in this one-pagers. A first version should be presented at the PaNOSC final event in Grenoble. 
<p>Andy, Sophie and Juliane named some responsible persons in the document, but everybody should feel free to contribute. 
<p>We will collect everything in one document and afterwards create one sheet per outcome. 
<p>We need synchronisation between the facilities and be clear what work in progress means. This is especially important for the senior level engagement.

<h1>Status of deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p>D2.6 - Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification (30/11)
<p>→ ongoing at UKRI (Abigail and Simon)
<p>→ got feedback from Marta
<p>→ Patrick is reviewing at the moment 
<p>
<p>D2.8 -  Active DMPs for Photon and Neutron RIs (30/11)
<p>→ ongoing at HZB (Heike)
<p>
<p>M11 Production of final FAIR data framework (30/11)
<p>→ correlates with D2.6

<h1>News from PaNOSC</h1>
<p>Andy sends his apologies and he invites us to the PaNOSC final event. It would be nice to have at least one person from each facility.
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<p>Paul, Patrick and Juliane have met with Silvan to talk about the last deliverable of WP4 (D4.5), which is about the Deployment of Analysis Services for EOSC within the EOSC. Silvan will invite the responsible persons for regular meetings. 
Patrick asks Majid to help Silvan with the deliverable, especially with the table of contents. 
<p>A meeting with WP6 took place where the final event was discussed: 23 and 24 January. Kat will send a save-the-date reminder. 
There will be a small session with DAPHNE during our internal meeting and also a bigger session within the ExPaNDS workshop on Tuesday morning. 
<p>Patrick and Juliane are going to the <b>EOSC symposium</b> next week.
"
#WP2
- "
<p>Brian is reporting about a <b>paper</b> that Heike (together with Andy Gotz) is writing for the CODATA Data Science Journal about the data management in ExPaNDS and PaNOSC.
"
#WP3
- "
<p>Alun thanks the colleagues from SOLEIL for the hosting of the <p>WP3 Joint meeting</b>. The meeting was very good and ensured the level of sustainability. 20 people were attending onsite and 25 people were attending online. 
<p>Kat will upload the recording on our website. 
"
#WP4
- "
<p>The most important task is the last <b>deliverable D4.5</b>.
<p>Majid is writing a MOU for a collaboration with PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. There will be a joint WP4 meeting in Grenoble. He is writing a document on how to proceed with VISA.
Patrick is phrasing the text with ILL.
"  
#WP5
- "
<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).
<p>A poster was presented at the plenary assembly of LEAPS.
<p>Oliver Knodel is participating and holding a presenting at the EOSC symposium. 
<p>Ana thanks Diamond for their help with the WP3 joint event at SOLEIL. 
<p>There will be no other public meeting with WP3 and WP4. 
<p>Sophie has reminded Ana and Oliver via email about the issue a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>#18</a>. That could be the content of D5.6.

"
#WP6
- "
<p>Kat thanks SOLEIL for hosting the WP3 joint event. 
<p>There are some deliverables that WP6 is working on which have to be submitted end of December. 
"

aob: "
<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2022</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>14/11-17/11</td>
    <td>EOSC Symposium</td>
    <td>Prague</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>29/11-30/11</td>
    <td>PaNOSC Final Event</td>
    <td>Grenoble</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p>Patrick informs everyone about the <b>INFRA-EOSC-01-01</b>. DESY is representing ExPaNDS (Paul and Sophie) and Andy is representing PaNOSC. 
<p>All ExPaNDS facilities are needed to apply for the open call. It would be the best to talk to Paul and Sophie now, so they can write specific issues already in the proposals. The earlier they know, the better. 
<p>Kat is reporting that Diamond would like to be involved, but everyone has to wait for the political decisions. But at least they can be an observer. Brian agrees. 
<p>Juliane is still searching for representatives from ExPaNDS facilities to take part in the panel discussion during the PaNOSC final event about INFRA-EOSC-01-01. 
Majid would like to attend.
"
---
