---
published: 
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Carlo, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat"
intro: "<p>The agenda for the f2f meeting must be planned.
<p>There is a Nobugs conference in September at PSI. Is there a possibility for sponsoring? Alan to discuss offline with Kat.
<p><b>Face to face meeting</b>
<p>All inputs from ExPaNDS and PaNOSC were summarised by Nicoletta in this document. At the moment there are 47 registrations (16 online). Patrick asked all WP leaders about
their session plans.
<p><u>WP2:</u>
<p>Technical session:
<p>- Discuss some of the reasons why facilities would like to support DMPs
<p>- Best case: input to support direction of next deliverable
<p>- Discuss with Andy from PaNOSC
<p>- 1 h 15 min needed
<p>Training session:
<p>- At least one training element (e.g. document, recorded workshop) for each WP2 topic
<p>Communication session:
<p>- How can we show the results of ExPaNDS to a larger community
<p>- Nicolas to discuss with Kat
<p>Sustainability session:
<p>- FAIR data assessment
<p><u>WP3:</u>
<p>Tomorrow is a WP3 meeting, afterwards Alun and Carlo will deliver us the missing information. There will be a coding session with Massimiliano, Carlo, Jiri, Axel, Kris and Stefan about
search API. Carlo will keep us up to date.
<p><u>WP4:</u>
<p>Technical session: VISA portal.
<p>Patrick asks Anton and Majid to deliver their session input until next Monday.
<p><u>WP5:</u>
<p>Technical session:
<p>- Which features does the community need?
<p>Training session:
<p>- The most important thing is the discussion, how the WP leaders can contribute to the training platform
Sustainability session:
<p>- More political discussion about how to secure the training when ExPaNDS has finished
<p>Communication session:
<p>- Ana would like to talk to Kat
<p><u>WP6:</u>
<p>Kat will support solving the technical issues of the hybrid meeting."

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Juliane is in contact with a German project, which secures the sustainability of ExPaNDS. It is called ((<a href='phttps://www.daphne4nfdi.de/english/57.php'>DAPHNE</a>)) (DAta for PHoton and Neutron Experiments) and is about data
management."
#WP2
  - "<p>The <b>D2.8</b> (DMP) meeting is every two weeks. Simon Lambert is a new colleague and is working on the <b>FAIR evaluation</b> task. A template with questions will be provided to the facilities. A coordinator from each
facility will be asked to have the responsibility to collect all responses and to ensure the written report is passed back to WP2 by the deadline of 1st October."
#WP3
- "<p>WP3 meeting is on 25th May. Discussion will be about the topics of the f2f meeting. Carlos improved the search API portal."
#WP4
- "<p>Nothing to report."
#WP5
- "<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) ((<a href='pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu)Oliver and Antoine are working on technical developments, among them the full implementation of the ontology in the training platform. Furthermore, Carlo and Antoine have created a workflow with training materials from
WP3 (data catalogue services, including ontologies)."
#WP6
  - "<p><b>D6.6</b> is ready for review next week.
<p>ExPaNDS is sponsoring the <b>IXS 2022</b> in Oxford.
<p>The <b>senior level engagement</b> (D6.24) is ongoing. The idea was to go to the LEAPS directors meeting and interview the directors with the help of a crew from Diamond for
a video.
<p>WP6 with PaNOSC have submitted an abstract for the ((<a href='https://www.esof.eu/#'>ESOF</a>)) in Leiden (13-16 July 2022), which has been accepted and is taking place 16th July in form of an online conference
session, which is for 1 hour and 15 minutes in the presence of a moderator. Each panel member will give a 10-minute talk each, which will be followed by a Q&A session with the
audience. The topic is open data for healthier societies."

aob: "Nothing to report."
---
