---
attendees: "Sophie, Juliane, Abigail, Alun, Anton, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Paul"
intro: "
<p>Juliane welcomes everyone and especially Sophie, who is back. Everyone welcomes Sophie.
<p>The <b>3rd PaN symposium</b> was very successful. Kat will provide the presentations. The <b>ICRI</b> had a huge amount of side events and it was not possible to attend all presentations. It was a good networking opportunity. 
<h1>News from PaNOSC</h1>
<p>EMail from Andy:
<p><i>News from PaNOSC is the closing event on the 29+30 November. All ExPaNDS members are warmly invited to join us in Grenoble to celebrate or remotely (less fun). Please register here:
<p><a href='https://indico.esrf.fr/event/66/'>https://indico.esrf.fr/event/66/</a>
<p>The PaNOSC+ExPaNDS 3rd symposium held at ICRI last week was well appreciated - thanks to all those who helped with the organisation.
<p>PaNOSC is attending the panel discussion of the ESCAPE closing event tomorrow.
<p>Any questions to be sent to me.</i>
<p>PAtrick and Juliane are attending the final event of PaNOSC. Maybe Kat and Isabelle are attending too. 
<h1>Deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p>Nothing to report.
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<p>Juliane and Sophie are working on the <b>sustainability</b> papers for LEAPS and LENS together with Andy and Ornela from PaNOSC.
<p>The <b>final event</b> will be planned together with WP6. At the moment the rough agenda is:
<p>23/10 PM ExPaNDS internal meeting
<p>24/10 AM ExPaNDS Users’ meeting (open for all)
<p>24/10 PM ExPaNDS internal meeting
<p>DAPHNE4NFDI suggested a satellite event together with ExPaNDS. It was discussed if a half day is needed or the meetings can be included in the planned meetings. 
The majority would like to include one workshop into the internal ExPaNDS part to discuss the sustainability of ExPaNDS and future work. The ExPaNDS User’s meeting could be organised together with DAPHNE. 
Anton will discuss this topic in the DAPHNE EB. 
"
#WP2
- "
<p><b>D2.6</b> is going to be sent to Patrick and Marta for the review on Friday. 
<p><b>D2.8</b> will be ready next week. Oliver Knodel and Steve Collins will reviewing the document. 
<p>For <b>D2.9</b>, which will be written by Abigail and Brian, Abigail remarks that end of January is not a good time for a deliverable because of the holidays in between and asks if we can extend the deadline to midst of February.  Juliane thinks that submitting at the end of January would be the best, but two weeks after will not be bad. Juliane will talk to Patrick about this topic.
"
#WP3
- "
<p>WP3 is getting ready for the <b>joint event</b> with PaNOSC next week. There are approximately 20 people registered.
<p>Carlo is working on <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>#13</a>, which is about onboarding our ontologies as an EOSC service. 
<p>The <b>KPIs</b> are monitored regularly. Alun asks DESY to work on the facility data catalogues to enable FAIR services and also on the PaN catalogue search endpoint.
"
#WP4
- "
<p>Anton reports that people are drifting away at the end of the project. Furthermore he reminds people to work on the KPIs and the deliverables.
  <p>Paul reports about the <b>ELIXIR platform</b>. He heard about it in EOSC future. It is more about biological science, but we should keep it in mind for the review.
"
#WP5
- "
<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).
<p>The last deliverable <b>D5.6</b> seems to be a bit tricky. WP5 is not sure about the content.
<p>Clara is coordinating the organisation of the <b>PaNOSC + ExPANDS WP3 joint event</b>. An open session will be organised on the second day.
<p>Antoine searched for google metadata tags and tried to do the event search for google. It is only available in a few countries. 
"
#WP6
- "
<p>Thibaud is going to attend the <b>WP3 joint event</b> at SOLEIL. Kat offers remote help. 
<p>Furthermore WP6 organises time slots for <b>catch ups</b> with every work package. It is difficult to find time slots with WP4. Anton should contact Thibaud for a meeting. 
<p>WP6 will discuss the last <b>senior engagement video</b> and a final close out video with WP1 in the next catch up.
"

aob: "
<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2022</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>02/11-03/11</td>
    <td>PaNOSC/ExPaNDS joint WP3 workshop</td>
    <td>Saint Aubain (SOLEIL)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>14/11-17/11</td>
    <td>EOSC Symposium</td>
    <td>Prague</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
</table>
"
---
