---
attendees: "Juliane, Abigail, Nicolas, Majid, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Thibaud, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p><u>D2.6 - Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification</u> (30/11)<br>→ submitted</p>
<p><u>D2.8 - Active DMPs for Photon and Neutron RIs</u> (30/11)<br>→ ready to submit</p>
<p><u>D1.14 - Financial report 3</u> (31/12)<br>Answers from PSI, UKRI, Elettra, EGI and Max IV are missing.</p>
<p><u>D4.5 Deployment of Analysis Services for EOSC within the EOSC-hub</u> (31/12)<br>First part of the deliverable is already in review,  two missing chapters will be written by Majid until tomorrow evening.</p>
<p><u>D6.07 - ExPaNDS representation material for relevant large international conferences</u> (31/12)<br>Reviewers: Patrick, Isabelle<br>→ is going to review tomorrow</p>
<p><u>D6.25 - PaN communities use cases</u> (31/12)<br>Reviewers: Patrick, Juliane <br>→ is going to review tomorrow</p>
<h2>Closing event</h2><p>It is difficult to find a place for the conference, because many hotels are not available. The time table and speakers will be discussed in the organising committee meeting.</p>
<h2>News from PaNOSC</h2><p>There are two more deliverables to go and the final report to be finished on the 10th January. </p><p>INFRA-EOSC-01-01 is going ahead, the WP structure is fixed. </p><p>There will be a meeting with the clusters from 01-02 (software development) and also with Open Aire for 01-03.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Closing event is being planned.</p><p>The project review will be on the 15th, 16th or 17th of May 2023. </p>"
#WP2
- "<p>For D2.9 an outline is ready. Brian would like to discuss some of it with other ExPaNDS members next month. </p>"
#WP3
- ""
#WP4
- "<p>Focussing on D4.5.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>WP5 has worked on the PaNET ontology with PSI (training portal). </p><p>There are eleven workflows inside the PaN training portal. </p> <p>Andy reports that there will be a <a href='https://events.hifis.net/event/630/'>workshop of LEAPS-INNOV WP7</a>. Nicolas is also involved. </p>"
#WP6
- "<p>For the WP3 workshop more than 110 questionnaire responses were obtained.</p><p>Heritage science communities have portals for their work and they try to find out how to incorporate data in these portals to make it FAIR. </p><p>800 people have registered for an early career meeting. They were asked about ideas for a DMP.  This is useful for our sustainability. </p>"

aob: "<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>CW 20/2023</td>
   <td>Final Review</td>
   <td>online</td>
  </tr>
</table>"
---
