---
attendees: "Patrick, Sophie, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Anton B., Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Objectives dashboard</h2>
<p>Following the extended PEB, Sophie put the objectives dashboards in <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/ExPaNDS-objectives-dashboard-per-partner'>GitHub’s wiki</a> and asked the PEB if that was fine. Several points were discussed but in principle no one opposed. </p>
<ul>
  <li>The EOSC provider registration status (objective 4) is a prerequisite to both the analysis service and the data catalogue in EOSC. A registered facility should at least have one service onboarded. It was reminded that the access policy remains in any case in the hands of the facility.</li>
  <li>WP5 and WP6 related objectives are not detailed yet, this will be discussed separately with WP1. </li>
</ul>
<p>The dashboard is not aimed at being exhaustive on all that we want to achieve in the project, it is to <b>monitor the progress towards the objectives</b> as they were formulated and refined at mid-term. It is a working table that everyone is encouraged to keep up-to-date, so we can focus the last year of the project (that is starting 1st of March) on reaching these objectives.</p>
<h2>PSI and WP2</h2>
<p>Patrick picked up on the issue raised separately by Brian on the <b>needed involvement of PSI for the FAIR assessment task in WP2</b>. He will organise a meeting with Brian, Alun, Carlo and Abigail.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>The <b>architecture update</b> is progressing, we are following the mid-term recommendations to include “PaN scenarios” for an overall validation of the architecture. These are based on the WP6 roadmap use cases. The objective for the delivery of an updated architecture is March 22.</p>
<p>EGI is setting up the <b>EOSC onboarding group</b>, all are invited to register to the dedicated mailing list, a first meeting will be planned soon.</p>
<ul>
  <li>To subscribe the new mailing list, please write to: eosc-onboarding-expands.eu-subscribe@desy.de </li>
  <li>To post in the list, please write to: eosc-onboarding@expands.eu </li>
</ul>
<p>Sophie reminded the PEB of the upcoming <b>interim report</b> to check PMs and € spending per WP and per partner for the period going from M19 to M30. She will distribute the instructions to the list of finance contacts on the 1st of March with one month to collect them. Results and analysis are then expected in April.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Vasily is working on the upcoming 2.5 deliverable on <b>PIDs</b>. Abigail suggested Oliver as a possible reviewer, given his experience with PIDs at HZDR. WP2 will try to have an internal version ready for review sooner than 14th of Feb (as asked by task leader) to ensure the deadline. We have many late deliverables accumulating, any deliverable on time helps a lot.</p>
<p>Concerning the <b>upcoming workshop on FAIR data management</b> (metadata), the questions are being refined. Once they’re ready, 2 e-mails will be sent: </p>
<ul>
  <li>a first one to facility representatives, including the questions to prepare and asking to nominate someone, by the 11th of Feb, to attend the workshop, someone who will be expected to answer these questions;</li>
  <li>a second one to all, inviting them to attend the workshop.</li>
</ul>
<p>Then Abigail mentioned the <b>FAIR assessment task</b>, which is due this summer and is a big piece of work (hence item #2 of the agenda). She foresees difficulties publishing self-assessment results because we don’t want to end up comparing facilities with one another and ending up with reluctance to publish. Isabelle agreed to help and discuss this possible issue separately with WP2.</p>
<p><b>Data policy guidance notes</b> are now ready to be put in the training platform. Similar notes will be produced for DMP guidance.</p>
<p>Finally, Sophie asked WP2’s opinion on the <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Catalogue-of-available-FAIR-tools-for-PaN'>catalogue of FAIR tools for PaN</a>. It was discussed during a WP2 meeting but it was not clear who the audience was and they wondered whether tools like FAIR-aware were not too generic for example for such a catalogue. A separate meeting would help to progress on this, so Sophie will get in touch. <br>Alun mentioned that training content provided by ETH Zürich was useful for young scientists at PSI.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>WP3 is focused on its upcoming deliverable to demonstrate <b>ICAT and SciCat working with the PaN search API</b>. MAX IV setup is to be used as a demonstrator. The deliverable will also cover the onboarding of a facility’s data catalogue in EOSC, linking to the associated milestone. Andy mentioned that STFC said in another meeting that the ICAT plugin for the PaN search API should be ready by the end of the week.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>The main two tasks for WP4 right now are to update the general architecture with WP3 and WP1 and to write the <b>prototype analysis service</b> deliverable before the end of February. Majid discussed the outline of the deliverable (D4.4) this morning with Anton and it will be on the agenda of Friday’s WP4 meeting. It would be as follows:
<ul>
  <li>description of the selected pipelines, correlating to the situation at facilities now,</li>
  <li>description of a containerised application,</li>
  <li>case of an OpenStack / Kubernetes deployment,</li>
  <li>one example using VISA.</li>
</ul>
The aim of the deliverable is not to provide 1 standard solution but rather recognise the diversity of the situation and describe some of the most interesting possibilities.</p>
<p>Majid proposed to have mixed reviewers between WP3 and WP4 so all three deliverables (architecture + prototype analysis + catalogue) are consistent.</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>WP5 received no other comment or question about the training plan (exchanges by email, several reminders were sent).  WP5 is now rolling out the training plan and will contact WP leaders to schedule the next WS and identify their needs.</p>
<p>New material from Soleil was uploaded to the platform.  ExPaNDS/PaNOSC agreed on  a single domain name: <a href='https://pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>. It is redirecting to the HZDR page for now, the new landing page agreed with PaNOSC will soon be up.</p>
<p>WP5 encouraged participants to send their training materials to them using the wp5@expands.eu address.</p>
<p>In terms of development, Oliver and Antoine are replacing the use of Google maps with an open source alternative: <a href='https://openlayers.org/'>open layers</a>.</p><p>With the mid-term recommendation to keep connected to other training initiatives in mind, Sophie asked the status of the LEAPS WG on training. Ana mentioned it had been on stand-by for a while but that activities were starting again.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>The use case <b>interviews</b> packed into 1 min videos are now ready, there are 7 in total. Isabelle thanked the PEB for the feedback received, in particular Uwe. Now WP6 is working on the data management plan on the back of those use cases, showing the actual changes it triggered at Diamond, up to the actual publication of the results. The identified users are also users of other facilities so Isabelle will involve them in a second phase. </p>
<p>As planned in the amended grant agreement, the next WP6 <b>webinar</b> will be on <b>tomography</b> with the UCL group. The 2nd one will be on <b>heritage science</b> and the Mary Rose. The third upcoming event is a <b>career-focused webinar</b> to showcase data science careers with gender-balanced role models.</p>
<p>Isabelle also reminded the PEB about the RDA call for abstracts for the <a href='https://www.rd-alliance.org/rdas-19th-plenary-call-sessions'>hybrid 19th RDA plenary in June 2022</a> and encouraged us to think of a possible session.</p>"

aob: ""
---
