---
attendees: "Juliane, Carlo, Majid, Antoine, Thibaud, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p><u>D2.6 - Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification</u> (30/11)<br>
  The review is done<br>
  “D2.6 - we are evaluating internal review comments which are requesting a significant change.<br>We are still considering how to best respond to comments.  Unfortunately, this will almost certainly require a short consultation with contributors and lead to a delay.” (Brian, Email)</p>
<p><u>D2.8 - Active DMPs for Photon and Neutron RIs</u> (30/11)<br>The review is done.<br>“D2.8 - we have review comments, but Heike is focussed on a paper deadline on 15th December. We would then expect it to be finished as soon as practical after that.” (Brian, Email)</p>
<p><u>D1.14 - Financial report 3</u> (31/12)<br>An email has been sent to the beneficiaries. Answers are expected until the 20th December.</p>
<p><u>D4.5 Deployment of Analysis Services for EOSC within the EOSC-hub</u> (31/12)<br>
Silvan is leading this deliverable. The aim is to finish it for internal review by end of this week. The review should be finished by the end of next week.</p>
<p><u>D6.07 - ExPaNDS representation material for relevant large international conferences</u> (31/12)<br>WP6 is checking if there could be a boost at the AAAS. Reviewers have to be found.</p>
<p><u>D6.25 - PaN communities use cases</u> (31/12)<br>Thibaud is working on several use cases for the deliverable. Reviewers have to be found. </p>
<p><u>M11 - Production of final FAIR data framework</u> (31/12)<br>Brian reports via email that the milestone was related to D2.7.</p>
<p><u>M8 - Third all-hands meeting organised</u> (31/12)<br>The third and last all-hands meeting is being organised at the moment. It will take place as our final meeting in January.</p>
<p><u>M15 - Analysis services for EOSC</u> (31/12)<br>M15 is related to D4.5.</p>
<p><u>M24 - AAAS & ESOF attendance</u> (31/12)<br>Isabelle attended the ESOF 2022, the attendance of AAAS is being discussed.</p>
<h2>News from PaNOSC</h2>
<p>Juliane reports: <br>
Patrick, Brian, Isabelle, Majid, Nicolas, Kat and Juliane attended the PaNOSC Final Event in Grenoble onsite.<br>
Every work package presented their results and every facility talked about what PaNOSC changed for them. The project has officially ended, the report is going to be finished in the middle of January.</p>
<p>Majid reports: <br>
A kick off for the MoU writing for VISA and the environment also took place in Grenoble. The collaboration is agreed and ongoing. General rules should be defined. A next meeting will take place on 18th January 2023. Furthermore it will be discussed at the final meeting in Hamburg.<br>
Majid will send the MoU to Alun and Carlo.</p>
<p>Paul reports: <br>
Andrea Manzi is in contact with EOSC future for using tags in the marketplace. It would be good to do this through LEAPS. Paul will talk to Andy. An initial set for the services should be built up, keywords must be chosen.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie has opened an <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/51'>issue</a> for the sustainability onepager. Please have a look and fill in, where you have input.</p>
<p>WP6 has set up an organising committee for the final event, now the planning is going on and WP1 and WP6 are meeting regularly.</p>
<p>The project review will be between the 14th April and the 17th May. Juliane will send a doodle for three dates to suggest to the PO.</p>
"
#WP2
- "<p>“However, I did want to update the PEB on the FAIR Task Force.  We had our final meeting yesterday, so that task force has now closed (several of the other projects involved have already finished by now anyway.)  Jos (EOSC-Pillar) has confirmed that there is no official final reporting requirement for the task force (so there won’t be a final report.)  Obviously, we still need to show that we collaborated, so that collaboration effort will need to be mentioned in Sophie’s final technical report for ExPaNDS.” (Email, Abigail)</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Carlo is trying to hit the KPI targets. He will ask the other facilities about the ongoing use of the PaN search API. </p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Nothing to report. (D4.5 see above.)</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Marta and Antoine have finished the last workflow. All workflows can be found on the training platform. </p>
<p>The work for the next deliverable is ongoing.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>WP1/WP6 have catch ups for the final event. The deliverables are ongoing. </p>"

aob: "<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
</table>"
---
