---
published: false
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Abigail, Nicolas, Carlo, Anton, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Paul"
intro: "D3.4 has been submitted. Patrick thanks all authors and reviewers.
<p>Patrick is waiting for feedback from the project officer about the sponsoring of the McXTrace training session at SOLEIL and a 3-month extension of the FAIR assessment task (#36).
<p>Finding a slot for the preparation meeting for the face-to-face-meeting of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS is difficult. Participants: Kat, Patrick, Juliane, Nicoletta, Jordi, Teodor.
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "The financial interim report from UKRI will be delivered on Thursday (14/04(22). All other reports were delivered. 
Paul, Marta and Juliane are working on the PaN scenarios for D1.6 (General architecture description in relation to the EOSC service).
Patrick asks if UKRI has PM left. Abigail says that we have to talk to Brian about that, because he has already some ideas. 
"
#WP2
- "D2.7 is in progress and needs to be tied up. There is much input from different people, especially WP3 and WP4. Abigail and Brian discussed if the deliverable could be submitted a few weeks later, because there is still so much new input. Patrick suggests to reduce the review time but keep end of May as the submission date. 
Abigail and Nicolas discuss the maturity level of the contributions and the overall picture. Abigail mentions that on her point of view some points (e.g. NeXus) are very technical in nature, which in practice means that only a few people from the wider group working on the deliverable are actually able to contribute to these aspects of the deliverable.
Patrick states that D2.7 is a very important deliverable.
Isabelle and Brian would like to review the document.
For the FAIR assessment task there will be another meeting to set up a survey (25th May). This meeting is to present the survey questions to the facilities, explain the self-assessment process, and answer any questions from facilities about what we are asking them to do. This is planned for the facilities and they should give their input on a new approach for FAIR data assessment. In September there should be a second meeting about the results. 
Abigail points out that there is no deliverable for training in WP2, i.e. as opposed to the situation in WP3, where there is a clear deliverable related to training.  In the other WPs, training material needs to be prepared as well, but we don't have the advantage of it being presented as a formal deliverable. Rather, it is soert of mandatory extra. Patrick claims that it is cleary documented and the reviewers know.  
"
#WP3
- "Upcoming workshops: 
UmbrellaID (May 2022)
Data catalogue
"
#WP4
- "Krisztian has set up a weekly meeting to discuss the WP4 part for D2.7. It takes place every Thursday at 3 pm. Everyone is invited to give input. 
Last friday the WP4/WP5 meeting took place. Majid suggested two use cases, one from DESY and one from SOLEIL. Kat suggested another tomography use case from Diamond, which is for the industry.
"
#WP5
- "Antoine has resolved the issue #34 on Github. 
Next step should be to open the training platform to everybody (outside ExPaNDS and PaNOSC).

Ana encourages partners/attendees to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).

On 8th of April the EOSC France workshop took place and Ana presented the ExPaNDS training platform. Around 100 people were attending, including a Research Ministry representative. 
The presentations should be uploaded in Zenodo and linked at our website and training platform.
Ana and Uwe were also invited to present our training and learning platform at a LEAPS and LENS Working group 3 (9th May 2022).

The interest in the training platform is growing. HZDR could take over the platform after the project, but there must be continuous input from further projects but independent from any further EU money.

Uwe points out that for some topics there is more movement in LEAPS working groups than in ExPaNDS (e.g. NeXus). 

The next WP5 meeting takes place on Thursday at 11 am. 
"
#WP6
- "Three international meeting are planned. Sponsorship of IXS 2022 has been taken over. 
Unfortunately we missed the due date for Scidata Convention in Seoul. 
"

aob: "Nothing to report
"
---

