---
attendees: "Juliane, Alun, Anton, Majid, Silvan, Ana, Antoine, Isabelle, Kat, Paul"
intro: "
<h1>WP5 User meeting</h1>
<p>Ana asked to add this topic to the agenda again, because she was on holiday and wanted to have an explanation why this meeting was changed into a Diamond user meeting. She also wanted to discuss the proceeding of the WP5 part.
As we talked about the <b>user meeting in Brussels</b> four weeks ago, the feedback of the PEB was not very affirmative. 
Uwe reported that the WP5 user meeting is planned as an online event. 
After the feedback WP6 decided to change the ExPaNDS meeting into a <b>Diamond user meeting</b>. 
Isabelle reports that the best time for the meeting would be December (14th and 15th), because in November there are teaching classes. Patrick is not available in December. 
Juliane will find a meeting slot with Patrick and WP5/WP6 as soon as possible. 
Kat will invite all WP leaders for a meeting to discuss a user meeting. 
<p>Ana suggests including the ExPaNDS user meeting into the <b>SOLEIL user meeting</b>, which takes place between 19th to 20th January 2023.
<p>All agree that we have to plan a <b>final ExPaNDS meeting</b> before the end of the project.
<p>Ana reports that the <b>ESUO</b> and especially the ExPaNDS presentation was well visited. Majid held a presentation, which raised many interesting questions. Ana will send a summary via email.

<h1>Deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p><b>D5.3</b> Annual report on training activities, workshops held, materials published and investigations performed (31/08/2022)
<p><b>D5.5</b> Dedicated websites and e-platforms with the teaching material (31/08/2022)
<p>The deliverables are being reviewed at the moment.
<p>
<p><b>M26</b> Ambassador engagement from all facilities user communities (31/07/2022)
<p>Kat has sent a note to add to the milestone in the EU portal. 
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
  <p>Deliverables of WP5 and M26 are being reviewed at the moment.
  "
#WP2
- "
  <p>Nothing to report.
  "
#WP3
- "
  <p>WP3 is working on a workshop with Majid, where SOLEIL should be the host. 
  <p>Another workshop with PaNOSC is being planned.
  "
#WP4
- "
  <p>Silvan is working on the <b>use cases</b> in a joint activity with Antoine to make the data (CFEL) openly available.
  <p>WP4 is preparing the <b>VISA workshop</b> (16th September).
  <p>Anton reports that UKRI is not convinced to register as an EOSC service provider. We need to encourage them to do!
    "
#WP5
- "
    <p>Antoine is working on the <b>workflows</b> for the training platform with Marta. The next workshop is about <b>ptycho-tomography</b> (with Zdenek), but the date is not fixed yet.
    "
#WP6
- "
    <p><b>Senior level engagement</b>: Helmut Dosch (DESY) was interviewed last week, Caterina Biscari (ALBA) will be interviewed next week by Kat.
    <p>We need a decision if the <b>ICRI 2022</b> satellite event takes place in person or if it is only a remote meeting."

aob: "
      Nothing to report.
      "
---
