---
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Carlo, Ana, Isabelle, Thibaud"
intro: "
<p>Isabelle introduces Thibaud, who will work at Diamond for WP6. Kat now has a new position at Diamond. Everybody welcomes Thibaud. 
<h1>ExPaNDS - User meeting and final meeting</h1>
<p>All attendees agree that the user meeting and final meeting should be in Hamburg next to the XFEL and DESY user meeting. 
<p>ExPaNDS internal: 23rd January 2023 AM and 24th January 2023 PM
<p>Open User Meeting: 24th January 2023 AM
<p>The DESY user meeting is the largest attended user meeting.
<p>A remote option is needed for the people who cannot attend in person. 
<p>The WP5 workshop about use cases will also be included in the open user meeting. 
<h1>WP5 PaN training platform awareness</h1>
<p>At the ESUO ExPaNDS has gotten some feedback during the poster session, where the training platform was presented. The attendees have seen the benefits of the platform, but they did not understand that it is for the whole PaN community and not only for ExPaNDS results. 
<p>The platform will also be presented at NOBUGS and at the EGI conference. 
<p>The ESUO agreed that the key message is that it is a collaborative project and a joint platform.
<p>Ana asks if the present platform should be presented at the SOLEIL user meeting and how we can spread the information about the training.
<p>Furthermore the platform should be presented at the EOSC symposium in November.
<p>
<p>Only SOLEIL is uploading content. Abigail suggests to provide a “how-to-guide” about the requirements of the uploaded content to make it easier. It takes time to upload something when it is not done regularly. 
<p>
<p>LEAPS is discussing this topic within the new INFRAEOSC-010. There is a good chance to work further on this platform, it must be secured that the results are being continued.
<p>
<p>Isabelle suggests to share it on <a href=https://www.wayforlight.eu>wayforlight</a>. 
<p>
<p>All libraries and user offices should be contacted for a survey on how the platform should be to work best with it. Ana suggests a workshop with the libraries. Patricks opinion is to do interviews with only one person per library to get useful answers.
<p>
<p>Spreading information seems not to work. Isabelle adds that it is an audience problem. Who do we have to convince, that it is only 10 seconds to upload content? 
<p>
<p>It would be nice for the first time at a beamline to know who should be contacted when there are questions about data management. 
<h1>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p><b>D5.3</b>Annual report on training activities, workshops held, materials published and investigations performed (31/08/2022)
<p>The deliverable is ready for the upload, but the DOI must be confirmed before submitting it to the EU portal.
<p><b>M17</b>
<p>Training websites and e-platforms online available (31/10/2022)
<p>Linked to D5.4 and ready.
<h1>News from PaNOSC</h1>
<p>E-Mail by Andy:
<p><i>In PaNOSC is the summer school is happening this week at ELI-ALPS in
Szeged. We have submitted the paper on the PaN community participation
in the EOSC to the LEAPS GA which will take place on the 16th. The
PaNOSC + ExPANDS outcomes will be presented at NOBUGS next week at PSI.</i>”
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<p>Preview of D5.3 is ready.
<p>Paul and Juliane have attended a workshop DAPHNE@DESY organised by Anton and Lisa, which was very helpful for the understanding of the different needs of beamline scientists and IT. Furthermore it helped a lot in connecting the different departments of DESY and raising awareness for ExPaNDS and DAPHNE. 
<p>Paul is going to a side-event (interTwin) of the EGI conference next week and Juliane is going to the NOBUGS conference.
"
#WP2
- "
<p>Two deliverables have to be received in November.  
<p>For the  DMP deliverable, Nicolas and Majid are working on the technical aspects and the description will be sent out.
"
#WP3
- "
<p>On the 2nd and 3rd November will be a joint PaNOSC/ExPaNDS WP3 meeting at SOLEIL
<p>Carlo asks for a summary of the upcoming events. Juliane will attach them under AOB in the minutes.
"
#WP4
- "
<p>Email Majid:
<p><i>Nothing new from WP4 apart from  the VISA meeting on Friday for which the organization seems to be finalized.</i>
<p>Email Anton:
<p><i>In addition to Majid’s report - we are going to ask all partners to summarise their efforts during the project and end status
<p>A summary of the WP4-relevent KPIs would be useful so we ask the right questions so as to be able to efficiently answer those questions - I have them somewhere but good to have the ‘official’ list.</i>
"
#WP5
- "
<p>Everything is ready for the VISA workshop on Friday. 
<p>Patrick needs to answer Clara the last questions.  
<p>There are 82 registrations.
"
#WP6
- "
<p>110 people attended the ALBA user meeting. Kat presented a poster from ExPaNDS. 
<p>Another senior level engagement interview has been done at ALBA with Caterina Biscari.
"

aob: "
<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2022</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>16/09</td>
  </tr>
</table>
  "
---
