---
attendees: "Sophie, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Majid, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Status of open issues</h2><p>As discussed during the last PEB, we reviewed the <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues'><b>open issues</b></a> for each WP (see respective subsections of next chapter).</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>The <b>2nd interim financial report</b> of M30 starting today, Sophie sent around the request to all our financial contacts at partner facilities to provide the spendings for ExPaNDS since the beginning of the project until the end of Feb. 2022, for each WP, in PMs and in €. Once every report is collated, WP1 will be able to check deviations to the “recovery plan” presented at mid-term review for our underspending.</p>
<p>Progress reports for WP1 and WP5 were updated and are now available online:
<ul><li><a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/reports-wp/reports-wp1.html'>WP1 progress report</a></li>
  <li><a href='https://expands-eu.github.io/WP1-reporting/reports-wp/reports-wp5.html'>WP5 progress report</a></li></ul></p>
<p>Following Paul’s suggestion, WP1 created a new wiki page serving as a <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/Catalogue-of-ExPaNDS-presentations'><b>catalogue of ExPaNDS presentations</b></a>. The aim is to have a landing page for all internal and external workshops ExPaNDS organised or was significantly represented. Contributions are welcome for any missing event.</p>
<p>The <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/wiki/ExPaNDS-objectives-dashboard-per-partner'><b>objectives dashboard</b></a> is also up-to-date and Sophie added a proposal for WP5- and WP6- related objectives, to be discussed during the next catch-ups.</p>
<p>As mentioned by email yesterday, Sophie asked the PEB to use office@expands.eu to contact the project manager from now on. Juliane should start on the 14th of March so this will be used for continuity. Recipients are: Patrick, Sophie and Juliane.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>For WP2, <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/17'>issue #17</a> is covered by the extensive consultation on the data policy framework of each facility’s policy makers, which led to its final version. Additionally, the workshop tomorrow is a cornerstone in the plan to validate the metadata framework, which covers the second aspect of the recommendation. Abigail will close the issue with the appropriate justification, after checking with Brian.</p>
<p><a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/19'>Issue #19</a> is supposed to be addressed in the frame of the FAIR assessment task, Abigail will confirm how exactly with Brian too.</p>
<p>The internal review of the PID infrastructure deliverable was finished as planned last Friday. Vasily and co-authors are taking the comments into account and will be finished by Thursday, so Sophie can publish on Friday.</p>
<p>Brian asked offline for a 3-months extension of the <b>FAIR assessment task</b>, because of its possible dependency on the metadata framework but mainly because the task is important and deserves the extra attention. Sophie and Patrick agreed and will ask the PO if we can delay the delivery for D2.6 to November 22. </p>
<p>Abigail reported an issue raised during the last WP2 monthly meeting about checking the services we use in the frame of the project were <b>GDPR compliant</b>: e.g. <a href='https://www.bioontology.org/privacy/'>bioportal</a>, Zenodo, GitHub and asked for WP1 guidance. When someone offers services to people located in the EEA, they have to be GDPR-compliant so WP1 is not checking that. Our contribution is limited to what we directly develop, e.g. the PaN training portal. Uwe suggested involving their HZDR DPO to check everything there was in order.</p>
<p>Alun informed us that PSI had a new documented procedure for research data management that Gerd managed to get published at the end of Feb. A new data policy will be derived from it, with much input from ExPaNDS and PaNOSC frameworks.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>WP3 met with Ana to discuss <b>training</b> for WP3, which was helpful to prepare for the next upcoming deliverable. D3.3 on SciCat and ICAT demonstrators is being internally reviewed and finalised. It should be published by the end of the week.</p>
<p>About the issues, <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>#13</a> on onboarding the PaNET ontology as an EOSC service needs to be addressed. About issue <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/21'>#21</a>, Paul reminded the importance, for <b>sustainability</b>, of building a community around the ontology maintenance, starting by defining a clear release management (see related issue <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS-experimental-techniques-ontology/issues/46'>#46</a> in the ontology repository). Isabelle mentioned the NeXus community as a good role model to follow.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>Majid will check <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/22'>issue #22</a> is covered by the testing framework during the next WP4 meeting. He hopes to have the deliverable on <b>analysis prototypes</b> (D4.4) finished by the end of week, reviewed and then published by mid-March. One pipeline is missing but will be done by Friday and a few facilities' infrastructures still need to be described.</p>
<p>WP4 is testing the use of <b>Singularity</b> instead of Docker to facilitate launching containers on different infrastructures. </p>"
#WP5
- "<p>In the frame of <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/18'>issue #18</a>, Antoine mentioned WP5 was getting closer to <b>LENS</b> for more neutron content (WIP). </p>
<p>On the duplication <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/34'>issue #34</a>, WP5 considers the two <b>workflow features</b> to be complementary. Sophie asked Antoine for a quick explanation of the different features and their complementarity and that he could then close the issue.</p>
<p>Following the PaNET ontology workshop of WP3, Paul suggested using <b>PaNET</b> in the search feature of the training catalogue, not only as controlled vocabulary but also to enhance search results (returning results from “children” terms too). Antoine has taken this suggestion onboard and WP5 is working on implementing it.</p>
<p>Login with <b>UmbrellaID</b> works for the PaN training catalogue since this morning!</p>
<p>Following PaNOSC’s review of their WP8 last week, Sophie reported a few points:
<ul>
  <li>careful with <b>content curation</b>: there should be a (human) filter when automatically harvesting LEAPS events e.g. as all of them are not relevant for training. Antoine is aware of the issue and already has some ideas on how to solve it.</li>
  <li>Once the domain name is final, Umbrella is working and the notebooks are completely operational (i.e. in 2-3 months), there will be an <b>official launch of pan-training.eu</b> commonly orchestrated by ExPaNDS and PaNOSC comms teams. Nicoletta will be in touch with our WP6.</li>
  <li>By then, pan-training.eu shall be onboarded to EOSC, instead of pan-learning.org (with HZDR as a provider then?).</li>
</ul></p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Isabelle offered that WP6 took over the action to ask LEAPS if they would curate a <b>Zenodo community</b>, including ExPaNDS content, that could be sustained after the project ends. Kat will get in touch in the frame of her involvement in LEAPS WG6.</p>
<p>WP6 is currently focusing on driving the content behind the different <b>use cases</b>. In addition to finishing the 2 pending deliverables - which will be sent tomorrow for internal review - Kat is helping WP2 and WP3 in the organisation of their respective upcoming <b>workshops</b>:<ul>
  <li>Metadata framework validation tomorrow,</li>
  <li>FAIR assessment workshop in May/June,</li>
  <li>Workshop on metadata catalogues (Rolf) in April.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Kat also announced we would sponsor a new <b>international conference</b>: the <a href='https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/12th-international-conference-on-inelastic-x-ray-scattering-ixs2022-tickets-224684466287'>IXS2022</a>.</p>"

aob: ""
---
