---
attendees: "Brian, Nicolas, Alun, Carlo, Ana, Antoine, Kat, Paul, Juliane"
intro: "<h2>Introduction</h2><p>Juliane Marauska is the replacement of Sophie Servan at DESY and introduced herself. The other PEB members also introduced themselves.
<h2>Status of open issues</h2><p>The open issues can be found for each WP (see next chapter).
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>The deadline for the <b>2nd interim financial report</b> (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/41'>#41</a>) is the 31st of March 2022. Once every report is collated, WP1 will be able to check deviations to the “recovery plan” presented at mid-term review for our underspending.
<p>Contacting the project manager via office@expands.eu.  Recipients are: Patrick, Paul, Sophie and Juliane.
<p>The project speed will eventually decrease because there was no overlap of working time of Sophie and Juliane.
"
#WP2
- "<p>For WP2, consultation workshops for D2.3 covered detailed policy consultation. Metadata workshop on 1 March 2022 received feedback from partners to contribute to D2.7 (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/17'>#17</a>).
<p>Patrick will ask the PO about a 3-month extension of the FAIR assessment task (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/36'>#36</a>).
<p>It was discussed where the doubts of the senior management on the FAIR data are (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/32'>#32</a>). Are they reputational or more financial?
<p>Brian is preparing a FAIR assessment workshop with Kat at the end of May 2022.
<p>There was a workshop for D2.7 two weeks ago, it will be published in May 2022.
"
#WP3
- "<p>Deliverable 3.3 was published on 16th March 2022.
<p>Deliverable 3.4 will be sent out next week.
<p>The onboarding of the ontologies as an EOSC service (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>#13</a>) was discussed. It must be justified of ZENODO is an EOSC service. Kat will set up a meeting to discuss this issue.
"
#WP4
- "D4.4 is being reviewed at the moment.

The technical architecture enhancements (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/16'>#16</a>) are discussed in regular meetings. The next meeting is on 7th April 2022.
"
#WP5
- "Sponsorship of McXtrace training session at soleil (<a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/37'>#37</a>) will be discussed by Patrick with the PO.

WP5 is working with WP3 for more training material.
"
#WP6
- "Nothing to report.
"

aob: ""
---
