---
attendees: "Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Alun, Carlo, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Kat, Thibaud, Andy"
intro: "<h1>Deliverables and milestones</h1>
<p>2.6 - Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification (30/11)
<p>→ ongoing at UKRI (Abigail and Simon)
<p>
<p>2.8 -  Active DMPs for Photon and Neutron RIs (30/11)
<p>→ ongoing at HZB (Heike)
<p>
<p>1.14 - Financial report 3 (31/12)
<p>→ starting in November at DESY (Juliane) 
<p>
<p>4.5 - Deployment of Analysis Services for EOSC within the EOSC-hub (31/12)
<p>→ DESY (Anton)
<p>→ EOSC-hub does not exist anymore, perhaps FedCloud instead
<p>
<p>6.07 - ExPaNDS representation material for relevant large international conferences (31/12)
<p>→ ongoing at Diamond (Isabelle, Thibaud)
<p>
<p>6.25 - PaN communities use cases (31/12)
<p>→ ongoing at Diamond (Isabelle, Thibaud)
<p>→ WP6 needs to talk to Anton about the use case
<p>
<p>11 - Production of final FAIR data framework (30/11)
<p>→ refer to D2.7
<p>→ UKRI
<p>
<p>8 - Third all-hands meeting organised (31/12)
<p>→ Final meeting in January at DESY (Juliane)
<p>
<p>15 - Analysis services for EOSC (31/12)
<p>→ refer to D4.5
<p>→ DESY (Anton)
<p>
<p>24 - AAAS & ESOF attendance (31/12)
<p>→ Diamond
<p>→ Thibaud will talk to Kat about this milestone (and the ones before)
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "
<p>Juliane started collecting all missing topics for the end of the project, including recommendations, tasks, objectives, KPIs.
<p>The <b>presentation website</b> must be filled. Please have a look and send missing presentations to Juliane.
<p>Juliane has contacted Ornela, the leader of the <b>sustainability</b> work package of PaNOSC and Andy to adjust the sustainability of both projects and the open tasks. A one-page document for LEAPS and LENS readiness to adopt our services is needed. Andy wants to talk about it in the LEAPS plenary, where Ana and Majid are attending. Juliane will write an email with some bullet points about this topic. 
"
#WP2
- "
<p><b>D2.8</b> is ongoing and Majid reports about writing meetings with Heike, which is a good idea. 
<p>Abigail and Simon continue writing the  text for <b>D2.6</b>. 
<p><b>Reviewers</b> for both deliverables have to be found. 
<p>Questions and remarks of the mid-term review will be adapted in <b>D2.9</b>. A planning meeting with WP6 is needed.
"
#WP3
- "
<p>Paul, Antoine and Carlo discussed the PaN search API via email. 
<p>Only ten people have registered for the WP3 joint meeting between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC at SOLEIL. Majid will keep the registration open. Unfortunately Alejandra, Brian, Darren cannot attend. Also ALBA and ILL cannot attend. 
<p>Juliane asks who will care about the sustainability of the federated search API. Carlos answers that PaNOSC will do, but this topic will also be discussed at the joint event. 
"
#WP4
- "
<p>Majid asked EGI for <b>D4.5</b> for a way to have an entry point to the platform. Paul suggested the entry point “infrastructures” and use it for all services. Furthermore keywords like “PaN facilities” or “PaN infrastructure” can be used. EGI is willing to work on this entry point. It would be an icon on the EOSC platform.
<p>Furthermore WP4 is preparing a document for all facilities who are interested in <b>VISA</b> and the continuation of the collaboration.
"
#WP5
- "
<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).
<p><b>EOSC Symposium Prague</b> -Talk accepted. Oliver Knodel will make the presentation
<p>LEAPS Plenary 2022</b>  -  Poster accepted. Ana and Uwe will attend the meeting
<p>SOLEIL Users’ Meeting 2023</p> - round table about data, data services, training … Ana is one of the panellists. A poster will be also submitted
<p>Organisation of the WS during the meeting at DESY will be launched beginning of November
<p>PaNOSC/ExPaNDS joint WP3 workshop organisation is ongoing.
<p>Antoine is planning the last workflow with Zdenek. 
<p>Several materials were added to the training platform (e.g. the VISA workshop materials, PaNOSC/ExPaNDS joint WP3 workshop announcement …).
"
#WP6
- "
<p>Thibaud asks if our <b>final event</b> is taking place in Hamburg. Juliane confirms and suggests to start planning (WP1/WP6).
<p>Thibaud reports that the <b>VISA workshop</b> presentations were uploaded to Zenodo. 
<p>There are 60 attendees registered for the <b>ICRI</b>.
<p>
<p>Thibaud will be at Soleil for the <b>WP3 joint workshop</b>. 
<p>
<p>All upcoming deliverables are on their way. 
"

aob: "
<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2022</b>
<table>
   <tr>
    <td>18/10</td>
    <td>3rd PaN EOSC Symposium @ICRI2022</td>
    <td>Brno and online</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>02/11-03/11</td>
    <td>PaNOSC/ExPaNDS joint WP3 workshop</td>
    <td>Saint Aubain (SOLEIL)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>14/11-17/11</td>
    <td>EOSC Symposium</td>
    <td>Prague</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p>Majid reports that Heike attended the DIGITAL LEAPS STARS project. A first face to face meeting took place and they are going to publish a survey for scientists. PaNOSC and ExPaNDS are the starting point for metadata examples, which will be a reference document. 
"
---

