---
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Nicolas, Anton, Majid, Ana, Thibaud, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p><u>D2.6 - Self-evaluation Photon and Neutron RIs for FAIR data certification</u> (30/11)<br>
  → The review is done<br>
  → Abigail and Simon are working on the final version</p>
<p><u>D4.5 Deployment of Analysis Services for EOSC within the EOSC-hub</u> (31/12)<br>
  → Silvan is leading this deliverable <br>
  → there is no EOSC-hub anymore, therefore we would like to transfer it into the horizontal infrastructure<br>
  → there are some problems with finding our workflows in the EOSC marketplace, Andrea Manzi is talking to Cyfronet, who is responsible for the marketplace<br>
  → Majid is writing the introduction, he would also like to mention the SLA, but this must not be in shape for this deliverable<br>
  → Majid asks Paul if we now have the PaN button in the EOSC marketplace, Paul answers that it is not possible yet, but he doesn’t know where the problem is<br>
  → we need a harmonisation with other EOSC projects, we decided to mention the collaboration with EOSC future, ELIXIR, EGI ACE and PaNOSC (VISA)<br>
  → Majid is also citing his battery project as a collaboration<br>
  → ALBA: VISA with Kubernetes without open stack<br>
  → also DAPHNE must be mentioned<br>
  → most important thing is: use cases in the portal</p>
<h2>News from PaNOSC</h2>
<p>The amendment was granted.</p>
<p>73 participants have registered onsite and around 50 online for the final event. The PO is unfortunately not coming. Not many people from ExPaNDS are coming.</p>
<p>Tomorrow Andy and Sophie are going to Brussels to discuss the INFRA-EOSC-01-01.</p>
<p>Heike is writing a paper about DMPs for the CODATA Data Science journal special issue on DMPs. A 2nd paper is being written by Marjolaine and Fredrik on the deployment of DMPs at ESRF + ESS.</p>"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Sophie has made some progress on the sustainability papers.</p>
<p>At the final event in January there will be a final CB and a TCB meeting. </p>
<p>Patrick and Juliane have been to the EOSC symposium in Prague. Oliver has held a presentation about our training catalogue. <br>
Furthermore the project Skills4EOSC was presented, with which we should connect. It is about creating a training ecosystem for open and FAIR science. Juliane will contact the coordinator of this project.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>Nicolas and Majid have contributed to D2.8. Heike has sent it for review to Oliver and Steve. </p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Carlo email:<br>
“I think we can close this <a href='https://github.com/ExPaNDS-eu/ExPaNDS/issues/13'>issue</a>. Details are in the issue.<br>
<ul>
  <li>Paul and I will have a meeting likely next week to see where DESY can contribute and make us reach the target KPIs</li>
  <li>I am still waiting for any ExPaNDS facility to provide their search API or OAIPMH URLs, whenever they answered positively whether they have or not such services.</li>
</ul>”</p>
<p>Majid asks when the deadline is. SOLEIL has problems with the endpoints. They have Scicat but they don’t have a real production-ready infrastructure. Patrick answers that this should be okay, because they can prove that it is technically done.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>WP4 is bringing the last pieces of work into shape. </p>
<p>Silvan and some others are working on D4.5. The meetings are every friday at 10:00. </p>
<p>Majid reports about a joint WP4 event with PaNOSC, which should have a follow up at our final event. He asks Andy if someone from PaNOSC can attend the ExPaNDS final event for this topic. Andy suggests Jean-Luc and Erwan. </p>"
#WP5
- "<p>WP5 is focussing on making latest developments and “cleaning” the platform and uploading the platform into the  EOSC portal.</p>
<p>Oliver and Antoine are working on the sustainability paper from Sophie.</p>
<p>Oliver is helping in D4.5 . He attended all the meetings. He is primarily working on TELBE. He will also provide a PaN training section with screenshots and text including the other WP4 datasets/workflows.</p>
<p>Uwe is exploring the possibility of organizing an event at HZDR for beamline scientists.</p>"
#WP6
- "<p>Kat will send a doodle poll for the organising committee of the final event.</p>
<p>As soon as the download from Zoom is available, Kat will download the recorded WP3 joint session. </p>
<p>Thibaud reports about a questionnaire, which Isabelle has sent to the ambassadors. WP6 has already gotten some feedback. The questionnaire consists of two parts. The first part is about demographic figures, the second is about practices and policies. WP6 will send the questionnaire to each facility of ExPaNDS and then can be sent to the ambassadors, funders, stakeholders, scientists and users. We can reach out to 10.000 people. There will be an analysis tool for evaluating. The questionnaire takes 25 minutes. It can be saved in between.</p>"

aob: "<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2022</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>29/11-30/11</td>
    <td>PaNOSC Final Event</td>
    <td>Grenoble</td>
  </tr>
</table>
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>20/01-21/01</td>
    <td>SOLEIL Users’ Conference</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/01-24/01</td>
    <td>ExPaNDS Final and User meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>25/01</td>
    <td>XFEL Users’ meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>26/01-27/01</td>
    <td>DESY Photon Science Users’ Meeting</td>
    <td>Hamburg (DESY)</td>
  </tr>
</table>"
---
