---
published:
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Nicolas, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Andy, Paul"
intro: "<p>The <b>face to face meeting</b> was successful. The technical and also the training sessions were very fruitful. The people attending remote had some trouble understanding and hearing the people in the room. It was highlighted that it helped writing the questions being asked in the auditorium in the chat, to aid remote users. This should be improved for the next hybrid meeting. Furthermore Abigail suggested handing out a list of participants. We thank Teodor and ELI for their support in organising and hosting the event.
<p><b>D2.7</b>: Reviews will be edited by Nicolas. Delivery planned until the end of next week. 
<p><b>D1.6</b>: Patrick thanks all contributors, Isabelle offers her help with the review. 
<p><b>D6.06</b>: Deliverable has been uploaded this week.
<p><b>D6.13</b>: Kat asks for one or two slides of each WP with the achievements so far. She will send a template for the slides.
<p><b>D6.24</b>: Isabelle and Kat are working on small videos. One director (DIAMOND) was already interviewed, another interview is fixed for next week (ISIS Neutron and Muon Source), two further interviews are being planned at the moment. The detailed plan will be submitted with the deliverable. 
<p><b>M26</b>: Isabelle proposes to do a mailing cascade with the national user communities and to refer to the meeting, planned for November in Brussels."

status-quo:
#WP1
  - "Juliane has spoken to Teodor, Marta and Guiseppe about the <b>EGI conference</b>. We submitted an abstract for ExPaNDS/PaNOSC and will present two use cases and the collaboration with EGI in eight minutes."
#WP2
- "Brian and Abigail need DESY, HZDR and ELETTRA to confirm the coordinators for the <b>FAIR assessment survey</b>.
"
#WP3
- "Nothing to report.
"
#WP4
- "Silvan speaks with Anton about being the coordinator for the fair assessment survey (for WP2).
"
#WP5
- "Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform  (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (pan-training.eu)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list (wp5@expands.eu).

Ana and Isabelle will merge the workshops in November. There will be an ExPaNDS meeting in Brussels, where use cases (e.g. heritage, tomography filters, pandemic) will be shown. WP5 organizes a workshop (user journey), where the main ExPaNDS results will be presented to the users.

The last workshop of WP5 is the VISA workshop discussed in Prague. 
"
#WP6
- "Deliverables have been already discussed in the beginning of the meeting. (see 1).
"

aob: "Nothing to report."
---
Footer
