---
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Anton, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Thibaud, Paul"
intro: "
<p>Patrick reports that we need to submit the final report on the 3rd May. But we need to be available afterwards, because the report will come back for correction. The structure of the project report will be sent via e-mail.</p> 
<h2>Closing Event</h2>
<p>Everybody agrees that the closing event was a successful meeting. A big advantage was to meet in person again.</p>
<p>Also the hybrid meeting quality has been improved.</p>
<p>Anton and Lisa were a bit disappointed that not more DAPHNE4NFDI people have been there.</p>
<p>Paul missed longer coffee breaks to deepen the discussions with the partners.</p>
<h2>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p><u>D2.9 - Report on promotion of FAIR data within Photon and Neutron RIs (31/01)</u>
  <br>→ in review
  <br>→PaNOSC is missing
  <br>→sustainability needs to be referred to
</p>
<p><u>D5.6 - Report on lessons learned and future prospects for adopting best practices (31/01)</u>
  <br>→ Ana will keep us informed
  <br>→ working with WP6
  <br>→Patrick thinks, this is very important, can be used for report
</p>
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>Juliane is starting to write the final report and collecting data for that.</p>
<p> For all: please keep in mind to spend your money for ExPaNDS in February!
</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>WP2 will finish the deliverable this week. Furthermore the work on the sustainability template is going on. 
</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>No other activities than the final report are planned.
</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>No other activities than the final report are planned. Picking up some work from the leaving people.</p>
<p>Including the work into the subgroups of LEAPS and OSCARS. A FAIR subgroup should be formed  In LEAPS WG3 to have a forum, where people can talk about FAIR.</p>
<p>Majid will send a  save-the-date email for the  VISA meeting at SOLEIL, 23/02/ - 28/02/. The first two days will be a more general meeting about VISA, whereas the two last days will be a hands-on-meeting. Juliane will set up an Indico page. </p>
<p>The MoU should be open for all people. Even if they will not use VISA (e.g. PSI).</p>"
#WP5
- "<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (<a href='http://pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list <a href='mailto:wp5@expands.eu'>wp5@expands.eu</a>.</p>
<p>Oliver and Ana are working on a new video for beamline scientist.</p>
<p>Antoine reports that the platform is working again. But there is still some work to do.</p>
"
#WP6
- "<p>The Synchrotron Radiation News article about ExPaNDS is submitted. Four of the six webinars for the PaN community are set up.</p>
<p>WP6 will disseminate the output of the grant.</p>
<p>The key achievements of Max IV can be used for social media.</p>
<p>There is a great interest in imaging (Diamond) on the training platform.</p>
<p>On the AAAS in March there will be a talk with a few slides about ExPaNDS.</p>
"

aob: "<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>23/01-28/01</td>
    <td>MoU workshop VISA</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
</table>
</p>
<p>Brian reports that Heike is still waiting for the review of her DMP paper.</p>
<p>Nicolas was asking for the financial numbers at the PEB, which Juliane had sent him. Nicolas will now send the correct numbers to Juliane.</p> 
<p>Financial departments really must submit financial numbers at the end of April latest!</p>
<p>Alun remarks that DAPHNE is only a German project, which can help only a bit for the sustainability of ExPaNDS. It must be made more international, 
Patrick thinks that it is good to have a national project at least and adds that Volker Beckmann (EOSC FRance) said that there are also initiatives in France. There should be initiatives for every country.</p>
"
---
