---
attendees: "Patrick, Juliane, Sophie, Brian, Abigail, Nicolas, Alun, Majid, Ana, Antoine, Uwe, Isabelle, Kat, Thibaud, Paul"
intro: "<h2>Status of the deliverables and milestones</h2>
<p><u>D5.6 - Report on lessons learned and future prospects for adopting best practices (31/01)</u>
  <br>→ Sophie gave feedback
  <br>→ Ana and Uwe accepted changes
  <br>→ Alun and Paul need to review the document
</p>
<p><u>D1.09 Periodic Progress Report (28/02)</u>
  <br>→ in progress
</p>
<p><u>M9 Successful completion of final review (28/02)</u>
  <br>→ in progress
</p>
"

status-quo:
#WP1
- "<p>WP1 is writing the final report. Sophie will finish the sustainability outcomes soon and upload them to Zenodo.</p>"
#WP2
- "<p>D2.9 has been submitted. WP2 is working on sustainability and preparing the webinars with Kat.</p>"
#WP3
- "<p>Carlo is collecting feedback for the KPI’s. An answer from DESY is still missing.</p>"
#WP4
- "<p>WP4 is organizing the VISA workshop next week. The registration closes tomorrow. No one from ILL has registered yet.</p>
<p>Majid thinks about going to the <a href='https://icalepcs2023.org/'>ICALEPS 2023 and presenting ExPaNDS.</a></p>
"
#WP5
- "<p>Ana encourages partners to upload relevant materials to the training platform (Materials - PaN Training Catalogue (ExPaNDS/PaNOSC) (<a href='http://pan-training.eu'>pan-training.eu</a>)) or send them to the WP5 mailing list <a href='mailto:wp5@expands.eu'>wp5@expands.eu</a>.
<p>WP5 is finishing the final deliverable and also is taking part in the sustainability discussions.</p>
<p>Oliver has made a video where the platform is presented.</p>
<p>Antoine has created some Github issues for the last open topics after the WP5 meeting.</p> 
"
#WP6
- "<p>There is a good average of announcements for the <a href='https://expands.eu/2023/01/26/expands-topic-based-webinars/'>six webinars</a>.</p>
<p>On the 28th February ExPaNDS will be presented in Washington, D.C. in front of the lightsources community. This global endeavour is the next level of sustainability.</p>
<p>Together with Max IV an infographic will be published. End of this week it will be send around for review. </p>
"

aob: "<p>Upcoming events:
<p><b>2023</b>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td>23/02-28/02</td>
    <td>MoU workshop VISA</td>
    <td>Saint-Aubin (Soleil)</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>20/02</td>
    <td>Webinar - Life Science</td>
    <td>online</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>21/02</td>
    <td>Webinar - Cultural Heritage Science</td>
    <td>online</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>22/02</td>
    <td>Webinar - Tomography</td>
    <td>online</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>23/02</td>
    <td>Webinar - Industry</td>
    <td>online</td>
  </tr>
   <tr>
    <td>21/03-23/03</td>
    <td>RDA 20th Plenary Meeting</td>
    <td>Gothenburg</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>Brian and Majid are attending the RDA plenary meeting in Gothenburg.</p>
<p>Paul reports about yesterday’s LEAPS WG3 meeting. A grant coming up is coming up  for instrument tools. Where and how can instruments be made FAIRer? Alun sees difficulties because of the data policies. Paul would like to discuss this within LEAPS. </p> 
<p>Another grant is coming up in the 01-02 about software quality. Uwe and Ian Bird are involved.In DAPHNE4NFDI is a lot of work going on regarding electronic notebooks</p>
"
---
